ALLEN COUNTY PUBLIC LIBBARY 



3 1833 02101 4284 

fQc 977.102 C59sn 1S45 

Annals of C i e v elan d 
CI eve 1 and newspaper d i gi 



Worl ,s Administration 



ANNALS OF CLEVELAND 



XXVIl] 

I84r, 

P,, : 1 



WPA Project 16823 



WORKS PROGRESS ADM£NI_STRATI_ONJN OH^^ 
District Four - Cleveland Ohio 



ANNALS OF CLEVELAND- 1818 - 1935 

1845 

Volume XXVIII 

Part I 



V. ^l 



do 



Y- 



ANNALS OF CLEVELAND 1818 - 1935 



A Digest and Index of the Newspaper Record of Events and Opinions 



1845 
Volume XXVIII 
Abstracted principally from the files of the Cleveland HERALD by: 
E. Martello 

E. McBride 
R. Steele 

H. Kolinowski 

E. Regenauer 

F. Rodgers 

F. Seraph ina 
E. Haworth 

E. Luckhurst 



Multigraphed by the Cleveland 

WPA Project 16823 

Cleveland, Ohio 

1938 

Distributed by the Cleveland Public Library 



Annals of Cleveland • 1818 - 1935 

A Digest and Index of the Newspaper Record of Events and Opinions in 

Two Hundred Volumes. 

Written, edited, and multigraphed by the workers of Project No. 16823 
Works Progress Administration of Ohio 
District Four, Cleveland 
under the administration of: 
Joseph H. Alexander, WPA District Director 

Marion F. Wilson, Super\isor Division of Women's and Professional 
Projects 



Project Superintendent: 
Official Sponsor: 
Technical Advisers: 



Elwood Salsbury 

Donald Lybarger, County Recorder 

Robert C. Binkley, Chairman 

Joint Committee on Materials for 

Research of the Social Science 

Research Council and the 

American Council of Learned Societies. 

Arthur C. Cole, Editor, 

MISSISSIPPI VALLEY HISTORICAL REVIEW 



Other Members of the faculty of 
Western Reserve University 










TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1845 



Introduction 


I 


^ n 


Classification Lists 


 III - 


V 


Abstracts 


 1 - 


- 383 


Chronological Index 


 385 - 


397 


Subject Heading and 






Proper Names Index 


 399 - 


■ 454

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST 
WPA Project 16823 
Introduction: 

In the ANNALS OF CLEVELAND, an attempt is made to answer a need 
long felt by scholars; that of preserving and making readily accessible the 
detailed record of a city's life and culture as contained in its newspapers. 
The Annals are to be a set of at least one volume per year, covering the 
years 1818 - 1935 and including an abstract of every newspaper story that 
has recorded a local event or expressed a local opinion. Abstracts are filed 
chronologically under subject headings alphabetically ordered. The abstracts 
thus arranged are numbered consecutively. A chronological index brings to- 
gether by number all abstracts from the newspaper of a given date, and a 
proper names and subject heading index offers an additional check. 

The editors have sought to preserve and arrange in this series informa- 
tion that is nowhere else available and readily subject to control. To avoid 
duplication they have concentrated their efforts on one major newspaper 
file • the principal one for the period. This method of work leaves out of 
account the diversities of opinion expressed by other newspapers. In the 
hope that the other files may be covered in respect of opinions there ex- 
pressed, the present volume is numbered Part I. Part II, when and as pro- 
duced, will complete the presentation of opinion from other sources. 

The file of the Cleveland HERALD has been used in the preparation of 
this volume. In 1845 the editor of the HERALD was J. A. Harris. 

Reference Line - H Dec. 5; ed:2/l indicates that the article follow- 
ing this reference was an editorial taken from the HERALD of Dec. 5, 



II 



page two, column one. An "adv" in the reference line indicates that the 
abstract was made from an advertisement. The number in parenthesis at 
the end of the abstract indicates the number of inches in the original 
newspaper article. 

Newspaper files used in abstracting were made available through the 
courtesy of Mr. Wallace Cathcart, of Western Reserve Historical Society, 
Miss Linda Eastman, of the Cleveland Public Library, the Cleveland City 
Council, Mr. Louis Seltzer of the Cleveland PRESS, and Mr. Earle Martin 
of the Cleveland NEWS. Miss Marilla Freeman and Mr. William Lippert of 
the Cleveland Public Library and the City Clerk's Office have been of 
great assistance. 



Ill 

CLASSIFICATION LISTS 1845 

#START_CLASSIFICATION

ACCIDENTS &amp; DISASTERS 

Accidents &amp; Disasters; Droughts; Fires. 

AGRICULTURE 

Agriculture; Droughts; Fruits &amp; Vegetables; Grain; Hay &amp; Feed; 
Hemp &amp; Jute; Horticulture; Insects; Live Stock; Seeds &amp; Bulbs; Wool. 

ARTS &amp; CRAFTS 

Art &amp; Artists; Engraving &amp; Lithographing; Maps &amp; Map Making; Photo- 
graphy; Signs &amp; Sign Painting. 

BUSINESS, TRADE &amp; FINANCE 

Auctions &amp; Auctioneers; Bakeries &amp; Bakers; Banks &amp; Banking; Barbers; 
Book Stores &amp; Stationers; Building Materials; Canals &amp; Canal Boats; 
Caskets; Clothing Trade; Commerce; Communities &amp; Places; Community 
Growth; Cosmetics &amp; Toilet Goods; Drugs &amp; Druggists; Dry Goods; 
Furniture; Groceries &amp; Grocers; Hardware; Hotels &amp; Lodgings; Incorpo- 
rations &amp; Partnerships; Insurance; Jewelry &amp; Jewelers; Markets &amp; 
Marketing; Money; Musical Instruments; Paints &amp; Varnishes; Real 
Estate; Retail Stores &amp; Trade; Shaving Equipment; Shipping &amp; Ships; 
Stoves &amp; Furnaces; Tariff; Tobacco; Vehicles; Wholesale Trade. 

COMMUNICATION 

Express &amp; Expressmen; Post Office; Postal Service; Telegraph. 

CONSTRUCTION 

Bridges; Building Construction; Buildings; Hotels &amp; Lodgings. 

CRIME &amp; ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 

Awards &amp; Claims; Capital Punishment; Commutations &amp; Pardons; Courts; 
Crime &amp; Criminals; Damage Suits; Estates; Forgeries; Gambling &amp; 
Lotteries; Intoxication; Libel &amp; Slander; Lynching; Penal &amp; Cor- 
rective Institutions; Suicides. 

EDUCATION &amp; CULTURAL ACTIVITIES 

Colleges &amp; Universities; Education; History &amp; Historians; Lectures &amp; 
Speeches; Libraries &amp; Librarians; Mathematics; Medical Profession; 
Organizations; Schools &amp; Seminaries. 

FOOD &amp; DRINK 

Alcoholic Liquors; Fish &amp; Game; Food Adulteration &amp; Inspection; 
Food &amp; Drink; Fruits &amp; Vegetables; Groceries &amp; Grocers; Meat. 

FOREIGN COUNTRIES 

Asia; Canada; Europe; Great Britain; Islands. 

HEALTH 

Deafness; Diseases; Medical Profession; Medicine &amp; Surgery; 
Mesmerism; Poisoning. 



IV 

CLASSIFICATION LISTS 1845 

INDUSTRY 

Brass &amp; Copper; Breweries &amp; Distilleries; Chemical Products; Coal; 
Communities &amp; Places; Ccnmunity Growth; Cotton; Hides &amp; Skins; Iron 
&amp; Steel; Leather &amp; Tannirg Industry; Machinery; Marble &amp; Stone; 
Mining &amp; Minerals; Oil; Packing Industry; Printing &amp; Publishing; 
Shipbuilding; Upholstering. 

LABOR 

Capital &amp; Labor; Employment &amp; Unemployment. 

LITERATURE &amp; THE PRESS 

Books &amp; Authors; Libel &amp; Slander; Newspapers; Periodical Publications; 
Poetry &amp; Poets. 

MARRIAGE &amp; THE FAMILY 

Children; Divorce &amp; Alimony; Families &amp; Family Life; Marriage &amp; 
Marriages. 

MILITARY FORCES &amp; WAR 

Annexation &amp; Expansion; Militia; United States Array; United States 
Navy; War. 

NATURE &amp; ANIMAL LIFE 

Flowers &amp; Florists; Greenhouses &amp; Nurseries; Insects; Live Stock; 
Natural Phenomena. 

OCCUPATIONS &amp; PROFESSIONS 

Chiropody &amp; Chiropodists; Dentistry &amp; Dentists; Dressmaking; Drugs &amp; 
Druggists; Jewelry &amp; Jewelers; Legal Profession; Medical Profession. 

PHILOSOPHY &amp; RELIGION 

Churches &amp; Sects; Religion. 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT 

Annexation &amp; Expansion; Awards &amp; Claims; Citizenship; City Govern- 
ment; Dogs; Foreign Relations; Leases &amp; Rentals; Lighthouses; 
Negroes; Political Campaigns &amp; Elections; Political Parties; 
Politics &amp; Government; Post Office; Sectionalism; Slavery; Tariff; 
Taxation; United States Territories &amp; Possessions. 

POPULATION &amp; VITAL STATISTICS 

Census &amp; Population; Deaths; Immigration &amp; Emigration; Indians; 
Negroes; Slavery, 

PUBLIC SERVICE &amp; WELFARE 

Cemeteries; Children; Deafness; Fire Department; Hospitals; Mental 
Diseases; Organizations; Streets; Trespassing; Water Supply; Welfare. 

RECREATION &amp; SPORTS 

Circuses; Entertainment; Fish &amp; Game; Gambling &amp; Lotteries; Games &amp; 
Sports; Museums &amp; Galleries. 



CLASSIFICATION LISTS 1845 

SCIENCE &amp; INVENTION 

Antiques &amp; Curios; Astronomy; Bakeries &amp; Bakers; Museums &amp; Galleries; 
Science &amp; Technology; Wells. 

SOCIAL LIFE &amp; CUSTOMS 

Anniversaries; Conduct &amp; Customs; Dancing; Duels &amp; Dueling; Fashions; 
Holidays; Social Events; Spiritualism &amp; Occultism. 

SOCIAL REFORM 

Reform Movements; Temperance; Women. 

THEATER, MUSIC &amp; DANCE 

Entertainment; Exhibitions; Music; Musical Instruments; Theater. 

TRANSPORTATION 

Bridges; Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Railroads; Rivers &amp; Harbors; Roads &amp; 
Highways; Shipping &amp; Ships; Streets; Travel. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Animals; Lost &amp; Found; Missing Persons; Persons &amp; Personages; 
Public Squares &amp; Circles; Soap; Superstition; Weather. 

#START_ABSTRACTS

1

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1-7 

PLACEHOLDER

ABOLITION. See Slavery . • 

ACCIDENTS &amp; DISASTERS 

1 - H Apr. 17:3/1 - A Mr. McKee,^ who was engaged yesterday in clean- 
ing out a well on Bank st. almost lost his life when the chain by 
which he was lowering himself into the well broke. Part of the well 
caved in, making his escape quite a marvel, as the earth was packed 
so deep and close over him that he became insensible for a time from 
suffocation. (4) 

2 - H Apr. 25; ed:3/l - Coroner Camp held two inquests today on bodies 
found in the river this morning. Both had been in the water for some time. 
One has been identified as a Mr. Jacob, a German warehouse man who 

was employed by a Mr. Monroe. He has been missing since March. The 
other body was not identified. The clothing was old and patched. The 
age was not determined, though appearances indicated that he was a 
young man. (3) 

3 - H June 2:3/1 - Coroner Camp held an inquest this morning on the 
body of a woman drowned in a slip near the warehouse of D. U. Barney 
and Company. She was identified as Nancy Topping, 25. A verdict of 
death by accidental drowning was returned. (3) 

4 - H June 26; ed:3/l - A few mornings since a promising little lad, , 
son of Mrs. P. B. Harris was playing with some comrades with the wind- 
lass used in removing a building, when the lever came suddenly round 

and struck him on the head, fracturing his skull. But faint hopes of 
the recovery of the little sufferer are entertained. (7) 

5 - H July 14:3/1 - Samuel H. Barton, a mason by trade, an^ recently 
from Rochester, N. Y., was drowned in the lake yesterday while bathing^ 
Barton was boarding at A. H. Cleveland's on Erie st. Efforts to recover 
the body failed until the vital spark had become extinct. ' (3) 

6 - H July 25:3/1 - Francis March, at work on the dock yesterday after- 
noon, bought a half gallon of whisky of which he drank freely, and be- 
tween 8 and 9 o'clock in the evening he was seen to jump into the river. 
The person who saw him supposed he went in to wash himself, but seeing 
him lie in the water face down, asked him if he could swim. No answer 
being received, the person stepped for a pole to get March out, but he 

sunk before assistance could be given. (verbatim) (2) 

7 - H Aug. 13; ed:3/l - Yesterday the team of Bosworth attached to a ' 
wagon loaded with stone, was left for a moment in front of Fowler's 
hotel. The horses ran away and came in contact with the team of Mr. 
Wiley of East Cleveland. As a result one of Wiley's horses was killed 
and Wiley was thrown from the wagon and broke his arm. 

2

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 8-12 

ACCIDENTS &amp; DISASTERS (Cont'd) 

"Hold on to your horses! No matter how steady horses may be, they are 
liable to take fright, and no man who properly regards the safety of his 
fellow man will omit the necessary precaution." (2) 

8 - H Aug. 19:3/2 - A German lad aged 16 years, was drowned in the canal 
on Sunday. He was bathing in the canal in company with other lads, and 
not being a good swimmer got upon a raft of boards which the smaller boys 
pushed from the shore. Frightened, probably, he fell off and sunk (sic), 
(verbatim) (1) 

9 - H Sept. 25:3/1 - A stranger, name and place of residence not learned, 
deck passenger on the Propeller DETROIT, while passing on a plank from 
the propeller to a schooner, last evening, fell into the river and was 
drowned. He was intoxicated. (verbatim) (1) 

Shipping 

10 - H Apr. 15; ed:3/l - Albany papers of Apr. 12 state that the wreck of 
the SWALLOW remains in the position it was left at the accident, except 
that the stern has settled to a greater depth in the water. No effort has 
been made to raise the boat. It is supposed that many bodies are confined 
in the wreck. Two more bodies were recovered on Apr. 11, making 13 in all. 

The clerk's list is supposed to show the number of persons aboard as 
250. If 204 were saved, and 13 bodies recovered, 33 are unaccounted for 
at this time. 

The circumstances attending the loss of the SWALLOW are such as to 
show gross negligence on the part of the pilot, at least, and the Senate 
of New York has appointed Messrs. Beekman, Bartlow, and Chamberlain to 
investigate the matter. 

"Burnett is an old river pilot, and has hithertofore been discharged 
for intemperance. When the facts all come out, we presume it will be 
found that the sad calamity was owing to the influence of that bane of 
human life, alcohol." (10) 

11 - H Aug. 16; ed:3/l - "The steamer KENT. - Just as we expected. An 
examination by the Canada authorities exculpates the officers and seamen 
of the KENT from all blame. Like the boy in school - he did not whistle, 
it whistled itself; neither the LONDON ran into the KENT nor the KENT 
into the LONDON. Of course they ran into themselves!" (1) 

12 - H Sept. 24:3/2 - The steamboat OREGON, in coming in during the 
blow about 8 o'clock last evening, a heavy sea running, parted one of 
the rudder chains, and the boat sheered across so as to bring her head 
with great force against one of the piers. The concussion broke the 
cutwater and started some of the butts, but did, we believe, no very 
serious injury. She is now lying in the river. (verbatim) (1) 

3

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 13-17 

ACCIDENTS &amp; DISASTERS • Shipping (Cont'd) 

13 - H Nov. 21:3/1 • The sch. ELIZABETH WARD, Capt. Crowl, was cap- . 
size! daring the severe squall on Tuesday night, near the Islands. It was 
at first reported that the crew were lost, but a later report is that they 
saved themselves in the small boat. The WARD is owned by Russell &amp; 
Crowl of this port. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Droughts; Fires &amp; Fire Prevention 

AGRICULTURE 

14 - H Jan. 15; ed:2/l - "It is very much to be regretted that the farmers 
of our State cannot be more generally induced to subscribe to, and read, 

Agricultural papers Now we do not expect that the Agricultural 

Journals are going to learn (sic) you how to plough, but they will tell 
you what kind c-f plow will do your work best and at least expense of 
labor; and a well conducted Agricultural Journal will tell you the 
results of exoe^iments by those who have means to pursue experiments; 

and from knowing of their results, you will avoid the unprofitable, and 

be instructed how best to pursue the most successful." (15) 

15 - H Feb. 17; ed:2/l - Wetmore introduced a bill in the senate for 
the encouragement of rgi-icul ture. The bill provi 'es for the formation 
of a state board of seven members, cf whrm the governor is one. They 
are to meet at C"ljmbus within one month after the passage of the bill 
to prepare a uniform system for conducting countv agricultural surveys, 
designate premiums, digest ad arrm^e all information of all kinds re- 
lating to agriculture. 

"These are a few of the prcmirent fetttures of the bill, which if it 
shdll become a lav, must prove advantageous to the agricultural inter- 
ests of the State." (4) 

16 - H Mar. 11; ed:3/2 - Wetmore of the Ohio senate has reported a bill 
for the organization of a state board of agriculture and domestic indus- 
try, to be composed of members from different counties appointed by the 
legislature. This board is to have the power of instituting surveys 

anJ organizing societies. It will meet yearly at Columbus, when a dele- 
gate from each county society shall be rei'eived, and his report heard. 

"Individual exertion, unsupported by general encouragement, will not 
long endure, and we hope our Legislators will not overlook the enact- 
ment of laws to the advancement of the principal wealth of which we 
boast." (4) 

17 - H July 12:2/3 ■ Dr. J. P. Kirtland of Cuyahoga county was named 
one of nine members of the state board of agriculture on June 25 at 
the convention of state farmers in Columbus. This newly organized 
board is to serve one year, until the general assembly passes a law 
providing for the election of a board of agriculture by the people. 

(3) 

4

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 18-22 

AGRICULTURE (Cont'd) 

18 - H Aug. 28; ed:3/2 - The Northampton, Conn., GAZETTE expresses 
pleasure over the fine specimens of buckwheat grown in brake swamps in 
that vicinity, and points to the value of such swamps, formerly only 
waste land, for farming purposes. 

"There are many pieces of low grounds in our State, that like this 
'Brake Swamp' are very rich in depth of soil, and would yield productive 
crops if they were cultivated." (3) 

19 - H Sept. 6; ed:3/l - Professor Scott, widely and favorably known as 
a gentleman of scientific accomplishment, will direct the newly organized 
Farmers' Collegiate hall of Hamilton county, established for agricultural 
research. 

"We trust that this noble example will be followed by other counties 
in Ohio and elsewhere." (3) 

20 - H Oct. 24; ed:2/l - The Berkshire Agricultural society celebrated 
its 35th anniversary in Pittsfield on Oct. 1 and 2, and from the reports, 
it must have been an excellent celebration. There were exhibitions of 
stock, ploughing matches and contests, premium awards, and recitations 
of poetry on that noble animal - the swine. 

"Long, long may this Parent Agricultural Society in the United States 
flourish, and be productive in the future, as it has been in the past, 
of the best results to those who cultivate the earth." (II) 

21 - H Nov. 1; ed:2/l • Cuyahoga county farmers met on John Reid's 
grounds in Newburgh, on Oct. 30 and conducted a spirited ploughing 
match. The match was organized in an effort to test local sentiment on 
the subject of another local agricultural society. Several hundred spec- 
tators and nine teams were in attendance. Each team was to plow one- 
third of an acre to a depth not less than five inches. 

The following were named winners; Joseph Luty, first premium, four 
dollars; Robert Tate, and Thomas Kale, each a $3.50 premium; Samuel 
Towns, premium, two dollars; Robert Kale and - * - Dille, each a premium of 
one dollar. The best time for the ploughing was one hour and ten minutes. 

"All that is now wanting to stimulate to improved energies and intro- 
duction of improved implements, seeds, cattle, &amp;c., is action on the part 
of the State, and we trust our next Legislature will so act for the true 
welfare of the State that every County shall have her Agricultural Soci- 
ety, numbering hundreds of members, and marching rapidly onward in im- 
provements." (10) 

22 - H Dec. 8:3/2 - We learn that petitions are in circulation praying 
the legislature to enact laws favoring the establishment of a State 
Agricultural society, and also in reference to imposing a tax upon dogs. 



illegible 

5

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 23-27 

AGRICULTURE (Cont'd) 

Ohio is strictly and essentially an agricultural state, and as such agri- 
culture should receive assistance from the general fund for its improve- 
ment and for the further development of its resources. The tax upon dogs 
is certainly one which nine-tenths of our people will readily admit is 
desired, more especially in large farming and sheep-growing districts. 
The destruction to a flock of sheep is oftentimes the entire ruin of an 
individual's profits for the year. The fact that there is now no redress, 
is exceedingly discouraging to the pursuit of wool growing, and therefore 
incidentally affects the resources of the state. 

"fie hope all who can get opportunity will sign these petitions." 
(3) 

23 - H Dec. 29; ed:2/l - The Hon. William Wetmore has introduced into 
the senate a bill for the encourgement of agriculture. There is one 
point in this bill which to us of the northern part of the state is not 
just - the establishment of the state board of agriculture. Only one 
of the gentlemen on the board is from the Reserve, the south and central 
counties furnishing the others. "With such construction of a 'Board,' 
where is the prospect of the North part of the State receiving any bene- 
fit from the bill?" We call the attention of Wetmore to this point. (7) 

See also Droughts; Fruits &amp; Vegetables; Grain; Hay &amp; Feed; Horticulture; Insects 

ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS 

24 - H Feb. 1; adv:l/5 - Ashbrook's Rectified Whiskey constantly for 

sale by B. F. Smith &amp; Co. on the dock. (1) 

H Feb. 28:3/3 - See Streets 

25 - H July 1; adv:4/4 - This day rec'd from Montreal - Port, Sherry and 
Madeira Wines - Brandy. Holland Gin and Schedem Gin, in bottles. Also, 
Scotch ale and London Porter. The above are of first quality and will be 
sold at fair prices, by H. Mould &amp; Sons, 32 Superior-st. (verbatim) 

(1) 

26 - H Sept. 10; ed:3/l - The mayor of New York has stationed police of- 
ficers at mock auction shops in that city with placards bearing this in- 
scription - "Beware of Mock Auctions." 

"It would be a work of mercy if the Mayor of Cleveland would place a 
police officer at the door of every drinking house in the city, with a 
bold placard - Beware of Dram Shops!" (3) 

27 - H Nov. 22; adv:2/4 - Appalling Disclosures! There will be sold 
hereafter, at Segur's Saloon, 2d door South of 0. Cutter's Auction 
Rooms, the following: Scotch Ale, Beer, Cider, Phila. Porter, London 
Porter, etc. 

N. B. - Oysters wholesale and retail - Game of every variety served 
to order in Season. (1) 

See also Temperance 

6

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 28-33 

PLACEHOLDER

AMUSEMENTS. See Entertainment 

ANIMALS 

28 - H May 20:3/1 - Quite an addition was recently made to the Menagerie 
of Welch &amp; Co., the "leaping tiger" having furnished an accession of two 
young ones to the den of beasts. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Dogs; Livestock ■ " 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION 

29 • H June 3; ed:3/l - It has been repeatedly stated that many of the 
Oregon emigrants have an eye on California, which is represented as a 
very desirable country. 

Many Americans have already located there, and it appears by late 
intelligence that an effort on the part of the people to throw off the 
Mexican yoke has proved entirely successful. "As soon as Texas is se- 
cured, we presume the friends of enlarging our territory will open nego- 
tiations for the annexation of California." (2) 

30 - H July 10; ed:3/l - The Oregon and Texas fever is turning now to- 
ward California, and ere long the tide of emigration will be divided 
among Oregon, California, and Texas. 

"We are bound to become a great people." (1) 

31 - H July 31; ed:2/l - The Montreal COURIER mentions the arrival at • • 
Lachine on July 23 of Sir George Simpson from the interior of Hudson 

bay. Through him it was learned that the U. S. citizens who had emi- 
grated to Oregon were dissatisfied with the character of the country, 
and that of t^e 5,000 who have arrived there from time to time, 1,000 
have proceeded to California. 

"The tide of emigration from the United States, which has commenced 
tumbling over the Rocky Mountains, will naturally flow to the richest 
and most desirable valley drained by the great Pacific, whether in Ore- 
gon or California." (4) 

32 - H Aug. 7; ed:3/l - The leading demagogues in central and southern 
Illinois are stirring up the people to hold Oregon mass meetings, and 
one has already been held. The proceedings exhibit a wonderful ebulli- 
tion of Oregonic patriotism, and no doubt will frighten John Bull from 

the entire Pacific coast. They talk largely of sustaining the honor of • • 
the country untarnished, in apparent forgetfulness that the state of ' 

Illinois is disgraced at home and abroad with the brand of repudiation. 
Instead of wasting their time in regulating Oregon matters, the people 
of the prairie state could be more profitably employed in tilling their 
fertile soil and scraping together the wherewith to pay their honest 
debts. (verbatim) (2) 

33 - H Sept. 1; ed:3/2 - In 1842, 60 emigrants left for the west from 
Independence, Mo. In 1843, there were 560, and last year, 813. This 
year, some 2075 have departed for the setting sun. If the progression 
continues, the number of emigrants leaving for the west in 1850 will 
reach 80,000. 

7

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 34 - 37 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION (Cont'd) 

"This may have ths appearance of over-exaggerated calculation, but 
we have no doubt that time will prove it a true one." (3) 

34 - H Sept. 1; ed:2/l - A small company of California emigrants left 
Independence, Mo., on Aug. 15 with the intent to overturn the present 
government of California and establish an independent rule. It is 
thought there will be no opposition from Mexico because of the great 
difficulty of sending troops through the arid deserts of southern Cal- 
ifornia. A revolution may be looked for by next spring. (3) 

35 - H Sept. 19; ed:3/l - The Illinois annexationists are a grasping 
set, and after having settled our claim to Oregon and California by 
mass meetings, have turned their attention to Cuba. Ihe people of St. 
Clair county recently held a meeting to devise means of annexing that 
island to the United States. The meeting instructed President Polk to 
purchase Cuba. 

"The 'Suckers' manifest great regard for the welfare of the whole 
world, save that portion only they owe so much." (2) 

36 - H Nov. 22; ed:2/l - The Oregon question is no doubt the leading 
topic of the press just now, and the Washington JOURNAL, official ad- 
ministration organ, devotes column after column to prove our title to 
the whole of Oregon and the necessity of U. S. jurisdiction over the 
disputed territory. The JOURNAL has, however, tempered its voice 
somewhat, and whereas before it screamed for all or none of Oregon, 

it declares now that "in saying 'the whole or none, ' we spoke distinct- 
ly and exclusively of our title." 

"It is evidently laboring to get up a war feeling, and hopes to gain 
strength to the party in power by exciting the prejudices and passions 
of the people, particularly of the West, against the policy of England 
in regard to Oregon." (12) 

37 - H Nov. 25; ed:2/l - We fear the madness of our rulers is pushing 
on a crisis in our affairs, the ultimate end of which no man can pre- 
dict in all its aspects. That we have a good claim to the whole or to 
some part of Oregon, we have no doubt, but as to how much, discreet 
and irapirtial men differ. 

The whole of it is hardly worth as mu&lt;h to us as a nation, as the 
single county of Worcester in Massachusetts, Lancaster in Pennsylvania, 
or even Richland or Licking in Ohio, and certainly not half as much as 
Hamilton county. Now we ask what two men should do who desired nothing 
but justice and who claimed the same land, whether good, or, like Oregon, 
not worth having? 

If we engage in a war about it, we have got to end it by a treaty, 
and a ronmon sense man would ask, why not have the treaty first? Why 
not select a mutual and disinterested friend to say where lays the 
right? If it be not done, and war comes upon us, it will be such a one 
in destruction of life and property and human happiness as earth never yet 


8

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 38 - 43 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION (Cont'd) 

looked upon. 

"Look well to the consequences then, before drawing the sword, for 
if we do this under present circumstances, we may as well at the same 
time throw away the scabbard." (18) 

38 - H Dec. 19; ed:3/l - "It seems that Oregon is determined to come in- 
to the Union, whether Mr. Pakenham and John Bull will let it or not. 

Mr. White has been appointed a delegate to Congress by the self appointed 

government of that territory, and is now in Washington, to ask a seat in 

our National Assembly to represent the territory." (verbatim) (1) 

Texas 

39 - H Jan. 13; ed:2/l - The message of Governor Briggs of Massachu- 
setts, which was read to the legislature on Jan. 4, opposes the annexa- 
tion of Texas, as unconstitutional and inexpedient under any circum- 
stances whatever. 

"It is brief, well written, and presents the condition of the Old 
Bay State in a very flattering light." (3) 

40 • H Jan. 15:3/1 - The New Orleans JEFFERSONIAN REPUBLICAN says 
they must have "Texas with her slaves or not at all." There is the se- 
cret of the anxiety of the South to annex Texas; the spread of slavery, 
and a controlling slave influence in Congress, are the only objects cared 
for by these "sympathizing patriots." (verbatim) (1) 

41 - H Jan. 30; ed:3/l - "The House on Saturday voted to annex Texas to 
the United States, by a small majority, and the same appliances and mo- 
tives that carried the scheme through the House will very possibly give 
it favor with a majority of the Senate 

"As a bare majority is alone necessary to carry the proposition, the 
chancer are in favor of its adoption." (9) 

42 - H Jan. 31; ed:2/l - A resolution declaring the terms on which Con- 
gress will admit Texas into the Union as a state was passed by the 
House on Jan. 25. It was copied from the bill reported to the Senate 

by Foster, of Tennessee, which is now before the Senate committee on ' • 
foreign relations. 

It will be seen that but two of the Ohio Locos voted against the 
resolution, Brinkerhoff and St. John. 

"All the Whig members from Ohio voted with the nays. Some eleven 
New York Locos had independence enough to vote against the Resolution." 

(14) 

43 - H Feb. 4; ed:3/l - "Read the letter we publish today from the wor- 
thy Representative from the Lorain District. It is an able expose and 
commentary on the extraordinary conduct of a majority of the House in 
regard to the admission of a slave-cursed Foreign Government into our 

9

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 44-47 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

Union of Confederated States, and shows clearly that our written Con- 
stitution is of no more effect than blank paper in arresting the im- 
perious demands of the Representatives of Slavery for power. Let 
the people of the Free States with alacrity rally around Freedom's 
banner and sustain its fearless champions." (4) 

44 - H Feb. 4; ed:3/l - "What Will the Senate Do?' - This is now a ques- 
tion of absorbing import, and frequently asked, but as yet cannot be sat- 
isfactorily answered." Some say the Texas question will be very close, 
and others say that a small majority will be found opposed to it. The 
Baltimore AMERICAN says: It is probable that the Committee on foreign 
relations, which has this whole subject in charge, will report that the 
Senate has no constitutional power to annex Texas except as a party to 
the treaty-making power. 

"If this Report is sustained, . ..then there is an end of the Texas 
question for the present session, if not altogether." (6) 

45 - H Feb. 24; ed:2/l - "The debate in the Senate on the Joint Resolu- 
tion from the House annexing Texas, continues to be the point of attrac- 
tion in Washington, and the Chamber is crowded daily to hear the able 
discussion." 

The constitutional power has been discussed at length. A great deal 
of contemporary history is brought to bear upon the clause of the con- 
stitution which is claimed as authority for admitting a new state into 
the union. 

"It would have been deemed a gross infraction of the Constitution in 
the early history of the Government to attempt what was now thought can 
be done." (12) 

46 - H Mar. 4; ed:3/l - Information received by eastern mail is to the 
effect that in the Texas annexation matter, on the motion of Walker, 
the bill by Benton was substituted for the joint resolution by a vote in 
the Senate, 27 for, 25 against. 

"Mr. Benton has triumphed in the Senate. He openly declared that Mr. 
Polk's Administration should have the responsibility of annexation, and 
his Bill was submitted expressly to that end 

"If Mr. Benton's Bill has passed the House, the whole Texas question 
remains in status quo and Texas agitation will be the prominent charac- 
teristic of the Polk Administration." (6) 

H Mar. B:2/3 - See Sectionalism 

47 - H Mar. 7; ed:2/l - "Southern policy and Southern influence have had 
the supremacy in our National Congress for some years - not as the result 
of power, but as the result of the political servility of Northern 
'dough-faces. ' By the acquisition of Texas and its division into four or 
five slave states, the preponderance of Southern influence, etc. in the 
Government will be based upon numerical strength, instead of the easy 



10

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 48-52 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd)

political virtue of Northern trading politicians.... 

"Congress has finished the work and thereby sanctioned, in the face 
of the civilized world, the execrable purpose of the American nation - 
the extension and perpetuation of human servitude. Whether the people 
of the free states will quietly acquiesce we know not, nor do we wish 
to raise the veil and attempt to record the probable or possible conse- 
quences that will sooner or later follow." (13) 

48 - H Mar. 31; ed:2/l - It is amusing to note how earnestly the Texas 
scrip holders beseech the Lone Star to take a place in our constellation. 
The hot annexationists are just beginning to learn that it "take two to 
make a bargain," and Texas well knows she can get any terms from the 
party in power in the United States that she chooses to ask for. 

Her public debt will have to be assumed, her battles fought, her ^ • 

frontier projected, her Indians kept in subjection, her slave institu- 
tions upheld, and her public lands left at her own disposal. 

"Are the people of the free States ready to sign the bond?" (4) 

49 - H Apr. 1; ed:3/l - Some weeks since the OHIO STATE JOURNAL pro- 
posed the holding of a state convention in Columbus of those opposed 

to the iniquitous Texas annexation scheme, and the suggestion has been 
responded to with considerable favor by a respectable portion of the 
press in the state. 

"We have no great faith in the efficiency of Conventions in prevent- 
ing the consummation of the annexation scheme.... Conventions now to 
arrest the evil look very much to us like attempting to 'lock the door 
after the horse is stolen.'" (4) 

50 • II Apr. 10:2/1 - Speech of Mr. Giddings. - We commence to-day the 
publication of the able speech of the member from this district, on the 
Annexation question, copied from the NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER. The 
"signs of the times" indicate that the Texas question is not yet disposed 
of, and the speech of Mr. G. is worthy of the perusal of every Northern 
freeman. (verbatim) (1) 

51 - H June 5; ed:2/l - The Washington UNION very coolly takes the posi- 
tion that "Mexico has been seeking to involve the United States in a 
quarrel about Texas, and has failed in her object." 

"This will certainly be news to the people of the United States, for 
it has been pretty evident from the day Tyler first broached his Annex- 
ation scheme, that the 'quarrel about Texas' has been of our own seek- 
ing. We covet the property of others, and appear bent on quarreling to 
get it." (4) 

52 - H July 18; ed:2/l - The annexation of Texas will no doubt induce a 
great deal of emigration from the slave states, particularly the older 
states which have been exhausted by slave tillage. The rich soil of 
Texas and the favorable climate for cotton and sugar will draw largely 



11

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 53 - 56 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

from the population of sections in which these crops are now unprofitable. 

"A new and extensive slave mart will be opened, and we should not be 
surprised to see a decided decrease in the slave population of Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland and the Carolinas, during the ensuing ten 
years.... 

"Texas is a much more desirable country to locate in than Oregon, and 
annexation will have the effect to change the destination of many who 
feel that they lack elbow room in the old States." (5) 

53 - H July 21; ed:2/l - The indications now are strongly in favor of a 
war with Mexico. Mexico is too weak and too unsettled in her policy to 
enter upon a war with any hope of success, and we apprehend nothing more 
serious than bluster will grow out of the annexation of Texas. 

"The intelligence from Vera Cruz is warlike, and it was thought there 
that war was inevitable, and that the next advices would bring the dec- 
laration." (7) 

54 - H July 21: ed:2/l - "At the last Presidential election in Texas, 
less than thirteen thousand votes were polled. There are fifty counties 
in the different States of the Union which cast a heavier vote. These 
Texasites will be greatly favored, for they will have two Senators in 
the United States Senate and one member of the House of Representa- 
tives, whereas a larger number of voters in other sections of the Union 
must content themselves with one or two votes in a state legislature." 

(2) 

55 - H July 24; ed:2/l - The Detroit FREE PRESS recently stated that 
the Cleveland HERALD was exhibiting a marked favor toward the admission 
of Texas into the Union. 

"We know not why our friend of the FREE PRESS should be of the opin- 
ion we are 'not very strongly opposed to receiving Texas into the Union'.... 

"We have opposed the annexation of Texas to this Union, and shall con- 
tinue to oppose it, until the iniquity is fully consummated by the 'powers 
that be' at Washington 

"We are 'liberal,' but not liberal enough to give to Texas, with its 
13,000 voters, the same power in the Senate of the United States as our 
own State with its 312,224 voters. We are not liberal enough to extend 
the unjust and unequal representation, made up of slave population. We 
are not liberal enough to make five Texas slaves equal in political power 
to three freemen of Ohio. We do not believe in a representation based 
upon property, whether animate or inanimate.... 

"We say now, as we said more than a year ago, 'We do not want Texas 
.... We do not want territory annexed to our Union, that was taken from 
a Government by violence and wrong.'" (11) 

56 - H Aug. 12; ed:3/l - 'According to the Detroit EXPRESS the U. S. 
troops stationed there have been ordered to Texas. The 'lone star' will 

be a costly addition to our constellation." (1) 



12

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 57 - 62 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

57 - H Aug. 19; ed:2/2 - Mexico appears unwilling to sanction the annex- 
ation of Texas to the United States and formal declaration of hostilities 
is an event of the very near future. The Mexicans are aroused and can 
easily be worked into a frenzy to protect their rights and territories. 

"It will be seen that although there is no actual declaration of war by 
Mexico, the indications are pretty strong that war may soon be expected. 
Some of the New Orleans editors think it will all end in Mexican bluster, 
which, unless Mexico is backed up by England, is quite probable." (8) 

58 - H Aug. 21; ed:3/l - "War with Mexico is threatened, and who knows but 
John Bull and all Canada may be down upon us before we see the begin- 
ning of the end, if the dogs of war are let slip?" The trouble between 
Texas and Mexico is the start, and the annexation of Texas to the United 
States adds impetus to the war movement. "Heaven avert that paltry Texas 
should now set the world in a brimstone blaze!" (4) 

59 - H Aug. 23; ed:3/l - "The PICAYUNE says a plan has just been thought 
of by which 'Uncle Sam' may save considerable expense in prosecuting the 
Mexican war; it's a pity it hadn't been thought of before the troops were 
sent down. The plan is to send a Daguerrotypist over to the Texan borders 
and let him take the whole Mexican army as it appears." (1) 

60 - H Aug. 26; ed:3/l - The Mexican chamber of deputies proposes a loan 
of 15 millions to carry on the war against the United States, urging that 
such a war is the only alternative against slavery and infamy and the per- 
manent loss of Texas. 

"The tone of the report is grave and earnest; but it is somewhat doubt- 
ful whether the fifteen millions will be forthcoming, unless something like 
force is employed - the necessity of which is indeed hinted at." (2) 

61 - H Aug. 29; ed:3/l - A volunteer regiment may soon be formed in St. 
Louis to march against Mexico in the event of a war over the possession 
of Texas. Santa Fe and California are to be marched against, and Major 
General Lee of the second division, Missouri militia, proposes to gather 
and lead 5,OC0 men to battle. 

"The Missourians appear anxious to make the trial at any rate." (3) 

62 - H Aug. 30; ed:3/l - New Orleans papers state Texas can, at a word, 
raise 5,000 ready and able riflemen to defend her borders, these men being 
willing to fight without pay - all they want is provisions and ammunition. 

"What a chivalrous, magnanimous set of fellows these Texan patriots 
are.... Pay they want not, but it would be acceptable if offered. Rather 
think it would be acceptable; and we guess when the Bills are exhibited 
to the public which have been paid out of the pockets of Uncle 



13

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 63 - 67 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

Sam, the people will find out that the pay was offered and accepted by 

the Texans. . . . 

"Texans will only fight for pay - and the people of this country will 
have to pay. unless we are much mistaken, before this Texas outrage is 
consummated, at least one Hundred Millions Of Dollars, as a consideration 
for the glorious privilege of 'extending the area of freedom, ' for the 
purpose of cursing that area with human slavery." (5) 

63 • H Aug. 30; ed;3/l - The Texan congress has passed resolutions ap- 
proved by the president of Texas, authorizing the calling out of the 
Texas militia, in the event of a Mexican invasion, and inviting United 
States troops to occupy the republic's borders. In all, Texas may be 
protected by U. S. militia and regulars, by volunteer troops, and by 
her own fighting forces. "So that, in view of the activity displayed 
in preparing for the crisis, it is not probable that there will be a 
deficiency of force to meet any emergency." (4) 

64 - H Sept. 1; ed:2/l • The Mexican congress has passed the law author- 
izing a loan of $15,000,000 for the conquest of Texas, and it is rumored 
the money has been raised with the help of England and California. On 
July 22, the government is also supposed to have drawn up a declaration 
of war against the United States, to take effect when it is definitely 
known that U. S. troops have landed in Texas. 

"It is now evident that the Mexican government does not consider a 
formal declaration of war necessary, previous to commencement of hos- 
tilities, deeming their threat of war, in the event of annexation, as 
sufficient." (6) 

65 - H Sept. 1; ed:2/l - The Washington UNION says General Gaines had 
no right to request troops of the governor of Louisiana for service in 
Texas. The command of "the army of observation" is especially entrusted 
to General Taylor. 

"We have suspected, since the news first reached us, that General 
Gaines was acting 'on his own hook' in making a requisition on the Gover- 
nor of Louisiana for volunteers for Texas; and we have now, in the Wash- 
ington UNION, a direct declaration to that effect." (4) 

66 - H Sept, 5; ed:3/l - "A letter from an officer of the Army, dated at 
Corpus Christi, Aug. 15th, states that so far there is no sign of hostil- 
ities on the part of the Mexicans, and that a courier, who had been des- 
patched by Gen. Taylor to Matamoras, bad returned and reported that 
there were only four hundred Mexican troops in or near that place. 

"What shadows have frightened Gen. Gaines and Father Richie!" (1) 

67 - H Sept. 6; ed:3/l - General Gaines has written to the President for 
100 battalions, with which he promises to plant the American flag in the 
Capitol of the Montezumas. 

"His pretty wife, who has lectured the country through on the subject 
of Peace, had better turn her attention to quieting her bellicose spouse." 

(2) 



14

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 68 - 73 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

68 - H Sept. 9; ed:3/l - "Unless the Government at once puts a stopper 
on Gen. Gaines, he will set the whole country in an uproar by his va- 
garies. A letter of the 27th ult. from New Orleans, states that Gen. G. 
has called on the Texan Government for 3,000 volunteers, to be mustered 
into the service of the United States! He is about calling for some 
30,000 volunteers on drafts from all the States bordering on the Miss- 
issippi below the Ohio river!!" (1) 

69 - H Sept. 12; ed:2/1 - The Texan congress has, after much debate, 
approved a measure which is intended to prevent collection of claims 
against Texas inhabitants by United States citizens, in the event of annex- 
ation. "Annexation may well be popular in the 'lone star Republic,' if 

by that means she may cancel at once her public and private debts. An 
indefinite portion of the citizens of the new state, it is true, fled 
to it to be secure against the just laws of some of the old States of 
the Union, and annexation would be a poor business for them if justice 
could go along with it." (6) 

70 - II Sept. 20; ed:3/l - The war fever at Vera Cruz and Mexico has sub- 
sided; General Paredes and his 7,000 troops refuse to cross the Rio 

Bravo and engage the Texans until back-pay and three months' advance pay 
is forthcoming. Mexico is, moreover, on the verge of a home revolution 
which will overturn the government. "The gasconades and bluster of Mex- 
ico, which so frightened Gen. Gaines and Father Ritchie, are passing off 
very harmlessly, and our army, drawn together on the Gulf from the ex- 
tremes of the Union, will probably soon enjoy the pleasure of marching 
back again." (8) 

71 - H Sept. 26; ed:3/l - "During the Presidential canvass, all the 
Locofoco Papers persisted in protesting, that, in the event of the an- 
nexation of Texas, there would not be the slightest chance of a war be- 
tween the United States and Mexico. And yet, no sooner is Texas annexed, 
than the United States, in anticipation of war, is hurrying troops to 
Texas, at immense expense, from all parts of the country. So, whether 

we are to have war or not, we are at any rate to be burdened with the ex- 
penses of one." (1) 

72 - H Oct. 3; ed:3/l - It was confidentially expected in Mexico that 
the annexation of Texas to the Union would cause a rupture between En- 
gland and the United States, and bring about a British-American war, but 
now that England has refused to oblige, the Mexicans must retire peace- 
fully and quiet their empty blusters. 

"It now seems to be settled, almost beyond a question, that there will 
be no war, nor difficulty of any sort with Mexico." (5) 

73 - H Nov. 11; ed:3/l - The U. S. Steamship MISSISSIPPI arrived at Pen- 
sacola on the 29th ult. from Vera Cruz direct in five days. The Mobile 
TRIBUNE says she brings no general intelligence of interest, but she 



15

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 74 - 78 

ANNEXATION &amp; EXPANSION - Texas (Cont'd) 

brings important communications from the Mexican Government; so important, 
indeed, that the PRINCETON was despatched with duplicate copies, and both 
Steamships were directed to reach Pensacola with all possible celerity. 

What is in the wind now? (verbatim) (2) 

74 - H Nov. 15; ed:2/2 - There can be no doubt of the peaceful import 
of the despatches recently received by our government from Mexico. In 
an authentic letter published at Vera Cruz, the writer states his belief 
that the present government of Mexico is desirous of avoiding a war with 
the United States. It is further stated that the object of the despatches 
is to open a renewal of diplomatic relations between the two countries 
that the Mexicans had offered to withdraw their forces from the frontier 
if the United States would order its troops to retire. They would also 
pay up the installments due on the indemnity, and acknowledge the in- 
dependence of Texas. 

"This may be classed as important - if true." (3) 

See also Militia; Political Parties; Politics &amp; Government - United States; United States Army 

ANNIVERSARIES 

75 • H Apr. 8:3/1 - The 17th of March occurring the present year during 
Holy Week, the sons of the Emerald isle in this city deferred the usual 
solemnization of the natal anniversary until last evening. A large 
audience assembled in St. Mary's in honor of Ireland's patron saint, and 
an eloquent oration was delivered by the Rev. Mr. Howard. (verbatim) 

(1) 

76 - H Dec. 8:3/1 - The citizens of Cleveland who are in favor of a 
"Pilgrim Celebration" on Dec. 22 are requested to meet tomorrow at the 
council hall. (1) 

77 • H Dec. 11:2/2 - A large number of the sons of New England and de- 
scendants of the Pilgrims, residents of this city, assembled in the coun- 
cil room, Dec. 9, for the purpose of making arrangements to celebrate 
the anniversary of the landing of the Pilgrims. 

John W. Allen was appointed chairman and S. L. Mather, secretary. 
The Reverend Mr. Canfield will deliver the oration. 

A committee was appointed to extend invitations and make the necessary 
arrangements. (4) 

78 - H Dec. 17:3/1 - The Anniversary of the Landing of the Pilgrims, as 
heretofore noticed, will be commemorated on Monday evening next, Dec. 22, 
at half pnst six, in the Second Presbyterian church in this city. 

In adiition to the address of the Rev. Mr. Canfield, a rich treat of 
appropriate music will be given by our most gifted singers under the di- 
rection of Capt. Bingham. Accompaniments on the splendid organ of the 
church by Prof. Long. 

To the descendants of the Pilgrims the occasion will be one of pe- 
culiar interest, and will attract a large assembly. (verbatim) (2) 



16

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 79 - 83 

ANNIVERSARIES (Cont'd) 

79 - H Dec. 23:3/1,2 - Last evening the celebration of the anniversary 
of the landing of the Pilgrims took place in the Second Presbyterian 
church. The exercises commenced with Mozart's grand chorus, "Glory to 
God on High," executed with fine effect by Captain Bingham's select 
choir. A prayer was delivered by Reverend Walden. The address of Rev- 
erend Canfield was admirably adapted to the occasion. In rapid review 
the speaker traced the influence of the principles of the Pilgrims in 

the republican institutions of our country. 

After the a'dress a hymn composed for the occasion by H. E. G. was 
sung to the tune of "Old Hundred." 

"The Trumpet's Loud Clangor" was played on the organ by Professor Long. 

(26) 

See also Holidays 

ANTIQUES &amp; CURIOS 

80 - H July 12:3/1 - Wonders of the Deep. - Mr. J. E. Lake has for sale 
quite an extensive collection of sea shells, many of them rare and beau- 
tiful, (verbatim) (1) 

81 - H Nov. 12:3/1 - At a meeting of citizens yesterday in the council 
hall resolutions were passed accepting the cabinet of natural curiosities 
and museum pieces donated by Professor Kirtland and members of the Cleve- 
land Medical college faculty to the citizens of Cleveland. It was decided 
to name a committee with instructions to raise funds for the upkeep of this 
collection of shells, minerals, etc., and to confer with the college heads 
on the outfitting of the room in the college building dedicated to the 
exhibition of the collection. To this committee the following were named: 
William Case, F. T. Backus, M. C. Younglove, H. C. Kingsley, G. A. 
Benedict, Gen. H. H. Doge, H. P. Weddell, T. M. Bond, and J. D. Cleveland. 

(9) 

82 - H Nov. 25; ed:3/l - We have been informed that some misunderstanding 
exists as to the donations made by Professor Kirtland and others to the 
cabinet of natural science. The donations are made upon the express con- 
dition that the cabinet or museum be always open to the free inspection 

of all citizens. 

"True it is that every man in this city should join the Academy of 
Natural Science, but if he does not see fit to do so, neither he nor his 
family are excluded from the privileges of the room." 

One thousand dollars must be raised. We therefore appeal to the citi- 
zens of Cleveland to give a liberal attendance on Thursday evening at the 
Empire hall, where a great treat is in store for all. (5) 

ANTI-SLAVERY. See Slavery , ;. . .: ' ; " 

ART &amp; ARTISTS - ■■ - , 

83 - H Mar. 26:2/2 - Miniature Painting. - We learn with pleasure, that 
Mr. Stevenson, so deservedly known as an artist, is about to return among 
us for a season. Such of our citizens as wish miniature likenesses will 
consult their interest by patronizing him. (verbatim) (1) 



17

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 84 - 90 

ART &amp; ARTISTS Cont'd) 

84 ■ H Apr. 29:2/4 - T. H. Stevenson begs to inform his friends and the 
public of Cleveland, that he has taken rooms, No. 2, third story of the 
Merchants' Exchange, where he will be prepared to paint Miniatures in a 
superior style. (verbatim) (1) 

85 - H May 30:3/2 - We have recently had the pleasure of seeing several 
exquisite miniatures of friends and acquaintances painted by Cleveland's 
own artist, Stevenson. He belongs to us, for it is here that his talents 
have been fostered until his pre-eminence in the art created for him an 
enviable fame. (3) 

86 • H Sept. 1:3/2 - West's great painting of DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE, 
or, the OPENING OF THE SEALS, has arrived in our city, and will be ex- 
hibited to-morrow evening. The Picture has of late been exhibited in the 
principal cities of the South and West, and comes here from Detroit. The 
Louisville JOURNAL speaks of it as "a production of wonderful power and 
sublimity." (verbatim) (2) 

87 - H Sept. 1; adv:2/4 - Unrivalled Attraction At Empire Hall! The cele- 
brated historical paintings of the BAPTISM OF JESUS CHRIST, RESURREC- 
TION OF LAZARUS, and RUINS NEAR ANCIENT TYRE will be exhibited in 
this place for one week only commencing Tuesday, Sept. 2d. 

These paintings are exhibited on 450 sq. feet of canvas, and represent 
two important features of Christ's life on earth. 

The Baptism represents 120 figures upon both banks of the Jordan; the 
latter picture represents 21 life-size figures. 

Admittance 25 cts. (3) 

88 - H Sept. 2:2/4 - The public will have an opportunity tonight to view 
the great painting, DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE, shown for the first time 
in this city at the Baptist church. The proprietor of the work will lec- 
ture on the text it is supposed to illustrate, and from past newspaper com- 
ments in Detroit and St. Louis it appears that the attraction is well worth 
seeing. After today, the painting will be exhibited both afternoons and 
evenings. (7) 

89 - H Sept. 3; ed:2/3 - West's painting, DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE, 
opened its showing yesterday at the Baptist church. It will remain here 
for only a few days. 

It is a production of wonderful power, and great excellence, and to 
be appreciated fully must be seen again and again. Our citizens should 
not let the opportunity pass by, without paying it one visit at least. 

(7) 

90 - H Sept. 4; ed:3/l - A very large number of persons viewed the cele- 
brated painting, DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE yesterday at the Baptist 
church. Both the picture and the lecture by the proprietor were given the 
closest attention by the spectators. The work is done on 200 square feet of 



18

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts SI • 95 

ART &amp; ARTISTS (Cont'd) 

canvas and exhibits artistic effort and emotion. 

"The Painter has not been content to strike the eye by the general 
effect of the whole; but he has imparted an individuality to every coun- 
tenance, and to every feature its peculiar and appropriate expression." (5) 

91 - H Sept. 5:3/1 - The admirers of the Fine Arts are reminded that 
West's great Painting of DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE will be exhibited at 
the Baptist Church no longer than this evening and to-morrow. (verbatim) 

(1) 

92 - H Sept. 17; adv:2/4 - Portrait Painting. - Mr. G. Robertson, who 
studied the art in the Royal Academy, London, has arrived in Cleveland, 
and proposes remaining only a short time. Those who may desire his ser- 
vices are invited to call at Messrs. Hanks &amp; Hopkins' Gallery, Empire 
buildings, where he may be found for the present. (verbatim) . (1) 

93 - H Oct. 6; adv:2/5 - The most beautiful, durable and tasty signs, 
excellent Portraits and all descriptions of Ornamental Painting, executed 
promptly, at 80 Superior-st. , by J. F. Hanks. 

A few pupils in Drawing and Painting, will be attended to, if application 
be made soon. (verbatim) (1) 

94 - H Dec. 19; adv:2/3 - Allen Smith, Jr., has returned to the city, and 
those wishing Portraits are invited to call at his rooms, 34, Leland's 
Block, Bond st. (verbatim) (1) 

ASIA 

95 - H Nov. 7:3/1-3 - Yesterday, at the Tabernacle, Fletcher Webster de- 
livered his second lecture on China to a large audience. He spoke of the 
discipline and efficiency of the Chinese police, and remarked that Chi- 
nese bandits enter no house except where there is a light. Indeed, said 
Mr. W., in China everything is reversed. Their night is our day - their 
west our east; two friends when they meet shake their hands at each other; 
their mourning dress is white; their compass points to the south; they put 
their saucers on top of their cups; they are certain that the sun goes 
around the earth, and that the earth is square and flat. 

Mr. Webster said: "The Chinese code, civil and criminal, is very 
voluminous. There is nothing in social, domestic or private life that 
is not provided for. The religious rites, the modes of social inter- 
course, of salutation, and even of courtship, are regulated by law." 

On the social life of China, the speaker remarked: "The Chinese 
have no hereditary aristocracy, or distinctions of social rank. Their 
dignities are all official, - all her people being, in theory, equally 
the children of the Emperor, belonging to one family, equal in rank and 
in blood. Birth and wealth are more disregarded there than in any por- 
tion of the world, - more even than in this country :; -., 

"Respect for one's parents and ancestors is held to be the first of 
duties - the foremost of political and religious obligations." (53) 



19

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 96 - 101 

PLACEHOLDER

ASSAULTS, See Crime &amp; Criminals 

ASTRONOMY 

96 - H July 2; ed:2/l - Dr. Lardner, in a lecture on the subject of the 
moon, stated that he did not think the presence of this satellite marks 
the occurrence or recurrence of atmospheric phenomena. The moon is sup- 
posed to influence changes of weather upon our globe. Although the par- 
ticular details of this influence are sometimes pretended to be described, 
the only general principle which prevails with the world in general is 
that a change of weather may be looked for at the epochs of new and full 
moons, and similar changes are sometimes, though not so confidently 
looked for, at the epochs of the quarters. In many meteorological obser- 
vations throughout Europe, a register of the weather in all respects has 
been kept for a long period of time, and the period of the lunar phases 
has also been registered. It is therefore possible to compare one set 
of changes with the other. The result of such an examination has been, 
that no correspondence whatever was found to exist between the two phe- 
nomena. Such, then, being the case, it would be idle to attempt to seek 
for a physical cause of an effect which is destitute of proof. (19) 

AUCTIONS &amp; AUCTIONEERS 

98 - H Mar. 26; adv:3/3 • In obedience to the command of a writ of al. 
fi. fa. issued out of the court of common pleas of Cuyahoga county, 
Ohio, to me directed and delivered, I have levied upon and shall expose 
to public sale at the canal, nearly opposite the stone mill in the city 
of Cleveland, on the 5th day of April next, between the hours of 10 
o'clock a.m. and 4 o'clock p.m. of said day, the following property, to 
wit: The canal boat No. 10. Huron Beebe, sheriff, By E. S. Root, 
deputy. (verbatim) (1) 

99 - H Apr. 26; adv:2/5 - Auction sale, Tuesday April 29. Clocks, Lamps, 
Jewelry, Cutlery, etc. by 0. Cutter, auctioneer, commencing at 10 a.m. 

(4) 

100 - H June 21; adv:3/3 - All the interest of Albert Powell in the firm 
of A. Powell and Company will be sold at the Court house on July 1 be- 
tween the hours of one and four p.m. Huron Beebe, sheriff. (I) 

101 - H June 21; adv:3/3 - A sheriff sale will be held at the court house 
on June 28, between the hours of ten a.m. and four p.m., of the canal 
boat MERRIMACK, her apparel and furniture. 

Huron Beebe, sheriff. (1) 



20

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 102 • 111 

AUCTIONS &amp; AUCTIONEERS (Cont'd) 

102 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - In obedience to the command of a writ of pri. fi. 
fa. issued out of the court of common pleas in and for the county of Cuy- 
ahoga, at the suit of James Kidney vs. Isaac Wilson to me directed and deliv- 
ered, I have levied upon and shall expose to public sale at the door of the 
court house in the City of Cleveland on the 10th day of July next, between 
the hours of 10 o'clock a.m. and 4 o'clock p.m. of said day, the following 
described property, to wit: 2 horses, 1 two-horse wagon, and 1 double har- 
ness. Huron Beebe, sheriff. By E. S. Root, deputy. Lynde &amp; Castle, pit. 
ff. att'ys. (verbatim) (1) 

103 - H July 5; adv:2/5 - Great Bargains - 100 Cedar Posts. 75,000 Shingles 
of 2d quality, and a lot on the Cleveland Centre flat on which is two dwell- 
ing houses, now under rent for $130 per year. The above property will be 
sold at auction by 0. Cutter, on Thursday, July 10th. Terms of payment _^ . 
one-third down, one-third in 90 days and the balance 12 months. A good 
title will be given. For estate of W. F. Lagougue. D. Buxton, W. V. 
Lagougue, Executors. (verbatim) (1) 

104 - H Sept. 15; adv:2/5 - New Establishment. 

S. D. G. Sawtell, 
General Agent, Commission &amp; Auction Merchant. 
No. 12 Superior-St. 
Sales at Auction every Tuesday and Saturday, at 10 o'clock A.M. Best 
references. (2) 

AWARDS &amp; CLAIMS 

105 - H Mar. 6:3/5 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 4, the report of 
the harbor committee in favor of paying the claim of J. F. Warner, $8.50, 
was accepted. (1) 

106 - H Mar. 10:2/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 7, the claim com- 
mittee reported in favor of paying the Cuyahoga Steam Furnace Co. $13.36. 

(1) 

107 - H Mar. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 24 claims for 
$654.50 were allowed. (1) 

108 - H Apr. 2:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 31, claims for 

$47 were allowed. (1) 

109 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, nine peti- 
tions and two claims were received. B. White's claim for $3 was paid. 

(1) 

110 - H Apr. 25:3/3 - At the city council meeting last night, the claims 

of laborers for work on streets were ordered paid - $89.22. (1) 

111 - n May 20:3/3 - The city council last night allowed ten claims to- 
taling $301.37. (1) 



21

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 112 - 118 

AWARDS &amp; CLAIMS (Cont'd) 

112 - H July 3:3/3 • The city council on June 30, allowed claims total- 
ing $214.49. (2) 

113 - H Sept. 30:2/3,4 - The city council last night allowed claims total- 
ing $281.57. (3) 

114 - H Nov. 21:2/3 • At the city council meeting on Nov. 17, two peti- 
tions and four claims were received. Fifteen claims amounting to $857.34 
were allowed. (1) 

115 - H Dec. 5:3/2 - At the city council meeting on Dec. 1, one petition 
and four claims were received. Six claims amounting to $133.73 were al- 
lowed. (1) 

See also Damage Suits 

BAKERIES &amp; BAKERS 

116 - H June 18:3/1 - Messrs. Gorham, Aplin &amp; Smith, No. 16 Superior 
street, have sent us over specimens of their Soda Crackers, Hard Bread, 
&amp;c., manufactured by their new machine from New York, just put in opera- 
tion, and we do not hesitate to pronounce the articles very superior. 

The machine is a real labor saving invention, as it takes the materi- 
als, and kneads, cuts and stamps the crackers ready for the oven. They 
have the only one of the kind in the West, and now afford crackers at 2 
cents per lb. less in price than formerly charged. (verbatim) (2) 

BANKS &amp; BANKING 

117 - H Jan. 10; ed:3/l - The HERALD has just received from the OHIO 
STATE JOURNAL a copy of a bill to incorporate the state bank of Ohio 
and other banking companies. 

"We have given it a hasty reading, and regret to say that the worst 
fears of the friends of a Free Banking Law are more than realized by 
its provisions. It combines the Safety Fund system with a delusive pro- 
vision in relation to Free Banking." (7) 

118 - H Jan. 11; ed:2/l,2 - The senior editor of the Cincinnati GAZETTE 
has written a letter to his paper from Columbus, where he has been at- 
tending the state legislature, bearing on the bill authorizing the trust 
company to issue notes for circulation. In his letter the editor ex- 
pressed surprise that Kelley of Cuyahoga county vigorously opposed the 
bill. 

"The vote given by our Senator upon the Bill to authorize the Trust 
Company to issue notes, has often been spoken of in our presence, and 
always in commendation of that vote. Not that we have anything against 
the Trust Company, but the course pursued by the friends of that Bill 
has been so determined and overbearing that there seemed no alternative 
but to boldly take sides against the measure, even in opposition to po- 
litical friends." (24) 



22

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 119 • 125 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

119 - H Jan. 11:2/2,3 - Should the bill now pending in the state senate, 
to incorporate the state bank of Ohio and other banking companies, be 
enacted, Cuyahoga county would be allowed four banking companies. This 
County would be listed as being in the 12th district, composed also of 
Medina, Summit, and Lorain counties. We print the provisions of the 

bill below. (40) 

120 • H Jan. 11:3/1 - We commence today the publication of the bill au- 
thorizing banking as reported in the Senate on Tuesday. We shall con- 
tinue the pulication until it is completed. (verbatim) (1) 

121 - H Jan. 11:3/1 - All citizens in favor of a safe and practicable 
system of Banking, are requested to meet at the Court House in this city, 
on Monday evening next, January 13, to express their opinion upon the re- 
port of the currency committee, lately made to the Legislature. (verbatim) 

(1) 

122 - H Jan. 14:2/1,2 - At the meeting held yesterday at the court house 
by Cleveland citizens to express their opinions upon the banking bill 
reported to the legislature by the currency committee, Charles Bradburn 
was appointed chairman and Samuel Williamson, secretary. 

After the provisions of the bill had been explained and discussed, 
it was resolved that a committee of five be appointed to prepare and re- 
port resolutions for the consideration of the meeting. Those appointed 
were: Prentis Dow, N. M. Standart, A. Seymour, T. P. May, and M. B. 
Scott. The following resolution was passed: Resolved, That the bill 
reported by the currency committee to the Senate of Ohio "To incorporate 
the State Bank of Ohio and other Banking Companies," is deceptive in its 
provisions, partial and unjust in its details, odius in its principles, and 
apparently intended, under a show of permitting free banking, to fasten 
upon the State a set of powerful monopolies. (24) 

123 - H Jan. 14:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "R." of Utica says: 
"Your Legislature appears to make slow headway in the adoption of a sys- 
tem of banking. It will be far better for your people that they adopt 
none, rather than introduce a system which shall not be practicable; and 
the Whig party will be held responsible, strictly so, by the people, for 
whatever they do on this subject." (6) 

124 - H Jan. 17:2/1 - The bill before the state legislature to incorpo- 
rate the state bank of Ohio and other banking companies came up again on 
Jan. 13, and on motion of Perkins the number of banks to be allowed in 
Cuyahoga county was increased from seven to 14. (4) 

125 - H Jan. 18; ed:3/l - An Argument For Close Monopolists. - A witty 
friend at our elbow has advanced the only sound argument we have heard 
against Free Banking. He insists that depositors should have some secu- 
rity as well as the bill-holder: "For," said he, "when the Bank of 



23

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 126 - 129 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

Cleveland failed, my account was overdrawn a couple of hundred dollars, 
and I found it very inconvenient to be required upon so short notice to 
make up the deficiency." (verbatim) (2) 

126 - H Jan. 20; ed:2/l,2 - Regarding the bill now before the state leg- 
islature, to incorporate the state bank and other banking companies, the 
Cincinnati CHRONICLE and the Cincinnati GAZETTE both are in favor of 
it, believing the note holders will be safe in their transactions beyond 
dispute. "We are glad to see both these journals allude to the fact that 
Ohio, like every new State, is seeking the use of capital, and not capi- 
tal seeking Ohio." (40) 

127 - H Jan. 23; ed:3/l - We observe that the bank bill has undergone 
amendments in the senate. One important amendment reduces the capital 
stock nf free bankers to $30,000, and another substitutes one-tenth for 
one-fifth of the stock to be owned by directors. "We hope the bill may 
yet be amended into the right shape, for as reported it had very few if 
any friends among business men. It is gratifying to see that several 
Whigs in the Senate are not backward in proposing and sustaining neces- 
sary amendments, and that a determination exists to smooth down the in- 
equalities and to correct the errors in the original bill." 

Chambers, speaker, complained of the course of the Whig editors in 
opposing the bill and expising its deformities to the people. "If Sena- 
tor Chambers could leave his Speaker's chair for a few days and mingle 
freely with the business men of the commercial cities and towns of our 
State, and learn 'public opinion' of the original Bank Bill from the lips 
of the people, he would not only take back all he said in relation to 
'certain Editors' attempting 'to lead public opinion,' but would confess 
that it was more difficult to restrain than to lead the omnipotent will 
in regard to the bill before the honorable body over which he so ably 
presides." 

Among the bills passed in the senate on Monday, we notice a bill to 
incorporate the Hunlerian society of the meiical department of the West- 
ern Reserve college, and a bill to incorporate the Board of Trustees of 
Rocky River seminary. (8) 

128 - H Jan. 25; ed:2/l - On Jan. 22 the senate, passed the bill to reg- 
ulate the militia. "If we understand its provisions, it requires every 
person enrolled under the law of last winter either to pay 50 cents per 
year or work one day on the highways, in lieu of doing military duty." 

The bank bill is still under discussion on the various amendments of- 
fered, mostly by Whig members. "We hope to be furnished with a copy of 
the amendments agreed to for publication, before the bill is finally acted 
on. - Nothing of interest in the House proceedings." (4) 

129 - H Feb. 3; ed:2/l - We have received a copy of the bank bill as 
amended by the committee of the whole, but it is evident that many errors 
were made in the reprint. Some of the features objectionable to the 



24

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 130 - 134 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

free bankers have been removed, but nothing has been done to remedy the 
inequalities in the two systems it embraces. Two systems so essentially 
different in principle ought never to have been incorporated in one Bill. 

"If the Committee on Banks and Currency had called before them the 
practical business men of the State from its different sections, and ex- 
amined them upon the extent and character of their business wants, they 
would never have reported this Bill. Should it pass the Senate, we hope 
the House will at once separate the two systems, and after graduating 
the privileges of each by the security offered by each and the advan- ,' 

tages which the State would derive from their respective operations, 
leave them to stand on their own merits." (12) 

130 - H Feb. 3; ed:3/l - The senate ordered the bank bill to be engrossed 
for a third reading, and it has probably passed the senate ere this. 

"The friends of the Bank Bill continued to amend it until the vote 
on engrossment, and many of its obnoxious features no doubt were changed 
and improved, or the Bill would not have obtained the vote of the able 
Senator from this district." (5) 

131 - H Feb. 4; ed:3/l - The bank bill was passed in the Senate on Jan. 

31 by a vote of 21 to 15. The Ohio STATESMAN pronounces it "the odious 

and abominable Bank Bill," and predicts that in its present shape, it 

will mret the bitter and determined opposition of the people of Ohio. 

"Should it become a law and work well the people will sanction it, for 

the reasonable of all parties desire a sound State currency, and that 

the question of banks should no longer enter into political contests." (4) 

132 - H Feb. 19; ed:3/l - We tpke pleasure in laving before our readers 
the remarks of Harvey, of the house, on the bank bill. 

"It is the language of a sound, sensible, practical, Man - language 
that expresses the sentiments of his constituents to the letter." (1) 

133 - H Feb. 24; ed:3/T - The bank bill has finally become a law. Dis- 
ney, and Reemelin, in the Senate and House respectively, have given no- 
tice that they shnll introduce bills to repeal the law. The state printer 
roars "Repeal! Repeal!!" from one end of the state to the other. 

"We trust it is a good, practicable law, one that will prove bene- 
ficial to the State. Should it prove to be such, the repeal cry of the 
'hards' will 'pass like idle wind' with the people; but if the obnoxious 
and unequal features of the first draft of the bill are retained in the 
law, it will be swept away like chaff by the popular will." . (4) 

134 • H Feb. 28; ed:2/I - A synopsis of the bank law recently passed is 
given in this issue. The system of banking which we preferred and which 
the people of northern Ohio desired was plainly advocated in our columns 
during the pendency of the bill before the legislature. 

"The Bill has many excellent provisions and we trust, if a trial ex- 
poses objectionable ones, a future Assembly will correct them." (12) 



25

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 135 - 140 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) " 

135 - H Mar. 4:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "S" says: 'Tou and Your 
correspondent 'Q' in yesterday's HERALD seem to be mystifying each other, 
and instead of giving light, only serve to make darkness more visible. 

"One great requisite of Laws should be clearness and perspicuity, but 
this Banking Law seems to defy the powers of an ordinary understanding. 
By some its provisions are construed one way, and by another some new 
meaning is attached." (7) 

136 - H May 2:3/1 - Bank Of St. Clair - It is stated that the Bank of St. 
Clair, Michigan, stopped piyment yesterday. 

The paper of the Bank has no sale here to-day, except at a great 
discount. (verbatim) (1) 

137 - H May 19:3/1 - We are gratified in being able to announce that a 
bank has been organized in this city. The officers of the bank are: 
President, R. Sheldon; cashier, T. C. Severance; directors, Elisha Tay- 
lor, Stephen Whittaker, W. T. Smith, Charles L. Camp, Charles Patrick, 
William Milford, Moses Kelley, R. Sheldon and T. C. Severance. The 
capital stock of the bank is $50,000. The bank commissioner has complied 
with the law in examining the funds, and the officers have ordered 
$45,000 in bank notes for circulation from the treasrer of the state. As 
soon as the notes are furnished, the bank will go into operation. (4) 

138 - H June 9:3/1 - The STATE JOURNAL contains the proclamation of the 
governor, giving a list of names of the companies that have complied with 
the new banking laws, among which is the City bank of Cleveland. (3) 

139 - H July 1:3/1 • The City Bank of Cleveland, R. Sheldon, President; 
T. C. Severance, Cashier; commenced business today. The notes of the 
Bank for circulation have not yet been received from the State Treasurer, 
but are expected in a few days. 

We also learn that another Bank is about being organized as a Branch 
of the State Bank of Ohio, with a capital of $100,000, and will soon be 
in operation. 

The Board of Control will probably be organized next week at Columbus, 
as the requisite number of branches are already formed. - The notes will 
be ordered at once, but cannot be ready for issue for some thirty or 
forty days. (verbatim) (2) 

140 - H July 2:3/1 • A branch of the State Bank of Ohio, under the name 
of "The Merchants Bank of Cleveland," have completed its organization 
with a capital of $100,000. Its directors and officers have been chosen. 
The directors are: Peter M. Weddell, S. J. Andrews, Prentis Dow, H. P. 
Weddell, Harvey Price. The officers are: P. M. Weddell, President; 
Prentis Dow, cashier. The bank will be ready for all active business, 
except the issue of notes, as soon as the governor issues his proclama- 
tion. (3) 



26

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 141 - 146 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

141 - H July 7:2/5 - Commercial Bank of Lake Erie. Notice is hereby 
given that under the provisions of law, and in conformity with a decree 
of the court of common pleas of Cuyahoga co., made on the 22d day of No- 
vember, A. D. 1844, all the remaining property and assets of the Commer- 
cial Bank of Lake Erie, have been transferred to the Trustee of the Stock- 
holders of said Bank, and that Joseph S. Lake, of Cleveland has entered 
into Bond with surety approved by said court, conditioned to pay all the 
liabilities of said Bank which had not then been presented and which 
should be presented for payment within five years, from and after said 22d 
day of November, 1844. 

As the laws of Ohio make no provision for the payment of the liabil- 
ities above referred to, after the expiration of five years, all bills of 
said bank, not presented within this period to said Lake, will be of no 
value. T. P. Handy, H. B. Payne, D. Baldwin, Late Special Com'ssrs. 
(verbatim) (2) 

142 - H July 7:3/1 - Commercial Bank of Lake Erie. - We understand the 
affairs of this Bank are now fully closed, and a distribution of its assets 
has been made to the stockholders of nearly sixty cents on the dollar. 

The liabilities of the Bank, not paid by the Special Commissioners, 
have been assumed by J. S. Lake, a notice of which will be found in our 
advertising columns today. (verbatim) (6) 

143 - H July 7:3/1 - The State Bank Of Ohio. The Board of Bank Commis- 
sioners have given notice to the different branches of the State Bank, that 
nine banking companies have been duly organized as branches, and that the 
Board of Controls is required to meet at Columbus on the 15th inst. 
(verbatim) (1) 

144 - H July 8; adv:2/4 - Merchants' Bank of Cleveland. This Bank is 
now ready to buy and sell Exchange, receive Deposits, and discount ap- 
proved bills drawn on the eastern cities. 

Office Hoars - 9 to 12, A.M., 2 to 6 P.M. P. M. Weddell, President; 
Prentis Dow, Cashier. (verbatim) (1) 

145 - H Aug. 2; ed:2/l - We have noticed for a week in the leading Hard 
papers of the state, a systematic attempt to cry down the bank of Wooster 
and create a panic, if possible, before the October elections. "This 
effort of destruction is in perfect keeping with the principles and the 
actions of the 'Hard' portion of the Democratic party. They would de- 
stroy the prosperity of the State, and take thousands from the pockets of 
honest industry, in order to gain a party triumph, and give place to some 
few reckless and unprincipled demagogues." (3) 

146 - H Aug. 6; ed:2/l - The quarterly statement of the Bank of Wooster 
is published in our advertising columns, and we refer to it as exhibit- 
ing a sound and safe condition of the institution. It will be seen that 



27

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 147 - 149 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) •' '^ 

while the circulation of the bank has been diminished $100,000 during 
the past three months, it has been withdrawn in the regular course of 
business, and has caused no run on the bank, notwithstanding the base 
efforts of the Hard Locofoco press of the state to get up a panic against 
the bank, for political purposes. 

"The people of Ohio have learned the demagogues after many dear- 
bought lessons of experience." (3) 

147 - H Aug. 7; ed:3/l - According to the Detroit FREE PRESS, the chan- 
cellor gave this decision in the case of Lyell versus The F. &amp; M. bank 

of Detroit: That the bank forfeited its charter when it established an 
agency at Chicago, and that it be placed in the hands of a receiver. 
"If there is no appeal, this decision, we suppose, will be final; 
our opinion however is that the end is not yet. If this decree is final 
Michigan courts are more summary than any chancery proceedings we 
ever heard of." (7) 

148 - H Aug. 14; ed:2/l - Medary was backed out of the Ohio STATESMAN 
for the good of the party, but the new editor is not warm in his seat 
before a furious war breaks out between his sheet and the Cincinnati 
ENQUIRER about the Wooster bank. Hazewell says: "When we have used 
banks and abused them - when we have availed ourselves of their failure 
to swindle the hard-working democracy of the land out of three-quarters 
of their small earnings, and then set up a reformer because we can no 
longer make the conservation of rascality a matter of interest, - then, 
and not till then, can we permit the editor of the ENQUIRER to endorse 
a calumny which only a knave could have invented, and no one but a fool 
have believed." 

"Lfiy it on, Mr. STATESMAN. If you tell one half the truth about 
these democratic editors, you must go at it without delay: one life is 
short enough in all conscience to give them their dues." (9) 

H Aug. 15; ed:2/l • See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections - Ohio 

149 - H Aug. 23; ed:2/l,2 - The writer of money articles for the New 
York NEWS is virulently assailing the credit of Ohio, and striving to 
write down the stocks of our state. In the NEWS of Aug. 14 he advises: 
"A stock so situated, cannot be a good security for banking, or for Gov- 
ernment financial operations." His reasons: That there are several 
millions of Ohio securities on sale everywhere; that Ohio banks and 
gentlemen, erroneously termed "of Wall street," are the chief purchasers; .. 
that all Ohio stock sold in Europe has been returned on the market and 
sold; and that the same parties have taken all issues of Ohio stock since 
1825. All this has since been explained away and disproved by Elisha 
Whittlesey of this state. 

"That paper is doubtless in the pay of a knot of destructives at Co- 
lumbus, a set of political demagogues who seek to bring the new Banking ' 
system of Ohio into disrepute by depreciating the State Stocks which 
form a portion of the security to bill-holders," (16) 



28

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 150 - 154 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

150 - H Aug. 23; ed:2/l - The efforts of some of the Hard editors of 
the state to impair the standing of the Bank of Wooster are of the 
basest character. On August 19 Ellis, publisher of the Hard paper at 
Mt. Vernon, started the rumor that there was a panic in Cleveland and 
Wooster in consequence of the failing of the bank." 

"Now the facts are, that there was no excitement here or at Wooster, 
nor any run on the Bank This last slander was coined in the pro- 
lific mint of the hards, and is bogus of the most criminal alloy." (4) 

151 - H Aug. 28; ed:2/2 - The clamor cf the Hards has been heard at 
Washington and graciously regarded. The Washington UNION of Aug. 21 ' . 
announces the secretary of the treasury will soon remove the public 
monies deposited in the Bank of Wooster. 

"Was ever such a vacillating, child's play course before exhibited? 
Party feuds are avowed as a reason for the course, and the Government ^ 
under Mr. Polk becomes a mere party subservient." (6) 

152 - H Sept. 2; ed:3/l • Our citizens have been pained to note the New 
York MORNING NEWS' attack on our state credit, and it now turns out 
that ex-governor T. W. Bartley, now district attorney for Ohio, is the 
instigator of these stock-gambler assaults on Ohio securities. It is 
part of the destructive campaign against the new Ohio banking system. 
To cap the climax of this party outrage, the Ohio STATESMAN endorses 
these assaults. "Is it possible that repudiation forms any part of the 
motives of the party leaders in their insane war on State credit?" (7) 

153 - H Sept. 6; ed:2/2 - The bold, ultra-reckless leaders of Locofocoism 
at Hamilton county have compounded a creed which outlaws paper money, 
demands payment of state debts in coin, denounces the state banking sys- 
tem, and sponsors the cancellation of all future transactions in paper 
money. The creed has been incorporated into that county's Locofoco 
convention proceedings. 

"Here we have the Hard platform in its length and breadth, and the 
last step of the progressives it will be seen is to call for 'the Leg- 
islative and Judicial invalidation of all future transactions in paper 
money.' This would doubtless be a very convenient get-off for some at 
least of the Hamilton county Hards, for the Broughs, we learn, are even 
now laboring to cancel their past 'transactions in paper money' at 50 
cents on the dollar! 

"We hope those of the party who have a semblance of conservation 
left, will note attentively the above resolutions, and see the strides 
the leaders of the Democracy of Ohio expect them to make. Perhaps they 
have learned ere this, that it takes 'seven leagued boots' to 'follow 
in the footsteps' of the destructives, but we will venture that not a 
single Democratic Convention in Ohio will dare to break from the lead." 

(14) 

154 - H Sept. 10; ed:2/l - The Hamilton county Locofocos, in convention, 
propose to repeal the bank law of Ohio and thus ruin state credit. They 



29

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 155 • 156 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

also propose to refuse to enforce contracts unless payable in gold and 
silver, because it is invidious and partial to give credit to the few 
rich men's promises to pay, and not give currency to the promises of the 
great mass who are poor. 

Derange, unsettle, and destroy the settled policies of the government 
and the recognized business methods and institutions of the country! 
that is the end to which these Locofoco reformers work. 

"A few years hence, the announcement of such principles as are em- 
bodied in these resolutions would have caused the authors thereof, and 
the party adopting them, to be regarded as political incendiaries; yet 
in these later days of progression, such radical and disorganizing doc- 
trines have become the cherished sentiments of the Locofoco leaders, 
and sanctioned and approved by their party press and congregated masses." 

This "bank reform'" cry of the Locos is little better than their lon-^- 
humbugged "gold and silver" agitation, condemned recently by the people. 
They find an unenviable notoriety in pulling down systems and institu- 
tions, never in building them up. 

And this is to be the issue - let it be distinctly understood. Shall 
our taxes be collected in gold and silver? Shall the use of all bank 
paper be repudiated, and our courts declare void all contracts and trans- 
actions to be fulfilKd in bank paper? Shall we hasten on such "a gold 
age?" 

"There should be action, constant and efficient action by the Whigs, 
and those of the other party who desire a settled policy - a time of 
steady and quiet business prosperity - who would preserve their own 
hard earnings, and hope for the future well-being of themselves and 
those who will come after - yes, all such citizens, be they Whigs or 
otherwise, will promptly and forever condemn such doctrines and designs." 

(20) 

155 - H Sept. 13; ed:3/l - General David Dial, nominated by the ultra- 
Locofocos in Clermont county for the house of representatives, endorses 
the repeal of the Whig banking policy, and denounces the banking law of 
last winter, arguing that the stock invested under that law was compara- 
tively exempt from taxation, while capital, especially that of the farmer, 
had to bear the burden of taxation. 

"It is one of the main objections, on the stump, to the banking law 
of last winter, that it exempts bank stock from taxation! This is en- 
tirely false, and known to be so by the ultras; but that makes no dif- 
ference with them, if they can gull the people with the falsehood." 
As a matter of fact, bank stock is charged more tax than any other in- 
vestment of capital, for under the law, banks are required to pay a tax 
of six per cent on net profits every half-year period. (9) 

156 - H Sept. 16:2/4 - City Bank of Cleveland. The Stockholders of this 
Bank are notified that an installment of ten per cent, upon the Capital 
Stock is required to be paid at their Banking House on or before the 1st 
day of October next. By order of the Board. T. C. Severance, Cashier, 
(verbatim) (1) 



30

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 157 - 163 

BANKS &amp; BANKING (Cont'd) 

157 - H Sept. 25; ed:2/I - There seems to be a radical variance of opin- 
ion and practice among the Locofoco party upon the subject of banking. 
The Hards go for an exclusive metallic currency and repeal of all bank 
laws. The Softs dare not make an honest and public avowal of their opin- 
ions about banking. 

Now the difference between the Softs of Lake and the Softs of Cuyahoga 
county, is this: In Lake county they resolve that they are in favor of 
a safe and sound system of banking, while in Cuyahoga county they resolve 
that they condemn the present bank law, and go for its repeal, and cau- 
tiously refrain saying anything in favor of any kind of banking or bank paper. 
"This is consistency with a vengeance - and such softness will not 'pull 
the wool over the eyes' of the Hards." (13) 

158 - H Oct. 4; ed:3/3 - Under the old Hartley bank law, Dayton's Loco- 
focos could not establish a bank without a great deal of red tape; now, 
under the guidance of Whig banking laws, there are two thriving banks 

in that city. Still, the Locos clamor for the destruction of the Whig 
laws and the re-instatcment of Hartley's humbug. 

"This is Locofoco consistency!" (2) 

159 - H Nov. 26; adv:2/5 - Commercial Bank of Cleveland - This Bank 
havirg complied with the requisitions of the law, is now fully organized 
and prepared to commence its business as a Branch of the State Bank of 
Ohio. W. A. Otis, President. T. P. Handy, Cashier. (verbatim) (1) 

160 - H Dec. 10:2/4 - The stockholders of the City Bank of Cleveland 
have been notified that an installm nt of ten per cent, on the capital 
stock is required to be paid on or before Jan. 1. (1) 

161 - H Dec. 23:2/4 - City Bank, Dec. 22, 1845. The Stockholders of 
this Bank, are hereby notified that a meeting will be held at their Bank- 
ing House on Monday, Jan. 7th, at 7 o'clock. P.M., for the election of 
Directors for the ensuing year. T. C. Severance, Cashier. (verbatim) 

(1) 

162 - H Dec. 27:2/4 - Commercial Branch Bank. An Election of Directors 
for this Bank will be held at its Banking-Office on Monday, the 5th day 
of January next, at 12 o'clock, M. T. P. Handy, Cashier. (verbatim) 
(0)

See also Money; Political Parties; Politics &amp; Government • Ohio (Finance) 

BARBERS 

163 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/7 - Wills &amp; George Smith, Barbers and Fashionable 
Hair Cutters, have, for the present removed their establishment from 
their former place to the room directly over the Hat Store of Messrs. 
Scribner, Cary &amp; Co., Up Stairs. The room is light and comfortable. (1) 



31

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 164 - 172 

BARBERS (Cont'd) 

164 - H Nov. 19; adv:2/5 - Shaving 'Um! David Wills, Hair Cutter and 
Barber, is now holding forth with Messrs. Smith &amp; Stevens, under the 
Franklin House, where he will remain through the winter. (1) 

BOOKS &amp; AUTHORS 

165 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - THE HISTORY OF A FLIRT, by the author 
of the WILFULNESS OF WOMAN; PHELIM 0' TOOLE'S COURTSHIP, by 

Wm. Carleton. author of TRAITS AND STORIES OF THE IRISH PEASANTRY; 
Johnson's LECTURES on the applications of Chemistry and Geology to 
Agriculture, Part IV, on tlie products of the soil, and their use in the 
feeding of Animals, for sale by M. C. Younglove. (verbatim) (1) 

166 - H May 22:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "One Of Em" says: I 
have been favored with a circular enclosing a copy of the Sheldon Mag- 
azine. By the prospectus I learn that the Rev. Henry Olcott Sheldon 
has been engayed four years in collecting a genealogical, biographical, 
and historical account of the Sheldons in America, and that the work 
is to be published in 12 parts, at three dollars in advance. 

"A work of this sort cannot fail to be peculiarly gratifying to the 
Family, and exceedingly amusing to the public generally; indeed, I 
have never known a forthcoming literary work that seemed to be antici- 
pated with such universal gratification." (7) 

167 - H July 1; adv:3/6 - LOVE &amp; DUTY - a novel by the author of MOUNT 
SOREL; Dr. Lardner's LECTURES, No. 4; SYBIL OR THE TWO NATIONS, 
written by D. D'Israeli, Esq., for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

168 - H July 1; adv:3/7 - THE SMUGGLER is a tale, by G. P. R. James, 
Esq., author of ARRAH NEIL, ROSE D'ALBERT, etc., just rec'd by M. C. 
Younglove. (1) 

169 - H July 1; adv:4/2 - THE AMERICAN POULTERERS' COMPANION, by 

C. M. Bement, for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

H July 1; adv:3/4 - See Drugs &amp; Druggists 

170 - H July 1; adv:4/4 - PHILOSOPHY OF THE PLAN OF SALVATION is 
a book for the times, written by an American citizen. For sale by M. C. 
Younglove. (1) 

171 - H July I; adv:4/5 - Thier's CONSULATE AND EMPIRE UNDER 
NAPOLEON, parts 1, 2, and 3; MEMOIRS OF THE REV. GEORGE BEECHER, 
by Catharine Beecher; PRINCIPLES OF THE INTERIOR OR HIDDEN LIFE, 

by Thomas C. Upham, for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

172 . H July 2; adv:3/5 • CLATER ON DISEASES OF HORSES, by Skinner; 
also Clater and Youatt's CATTLE DOCTOR, for sale by M. C. Younglove. 
(verbatim) (1) 



32

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 173 - 180 

BOOKS &amp; AUTHORS (Cont'd) 

173 - H July 2; adv:4/6 - 

WEBSTER'S AMERICAN DICTIONARY 
•■■; 2 VOLS. ;. •/ 

PRICE REDUCED TO $10.50. 
This edition contains a supplement of several thousand words by the au- 
thor, now only published since his decease. Just rec'd and for sale by 
R. Redington. (verbatim) (1) 

174 - H July 3; adv:2/5 - M. C. Younglove offers the following books: 
THE NEVILLES OF GARRETSTOWN by the author of HENRY LORRINGNER; 
MONTEZUMA THE SERF by Professor Ingraham. (1) 

175 - H July 3; aJv:2/7 - Irving etc., THE KNICKERBOCKER SKETCH BOOK, 
edited by Lewis Gaylord Clarke; Cooper's new work, SATANSTOE OR THE 
LITTLEPAGE MANUSCRIPTS, a tale of the Colony, by the author of the 
PATHFINDER, etc., just rec'd and for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

176 - H July 3; adv:3/4 - HARPER'S PICTORIAL BIBLE, No. 30, just rec'd., 
PARLEY'S CABINET-LIBRARY, complete. Comprising ancient and modern 
Biography, History, Nature, Arts, Scienre, Piiilosophy, &amp;c. in 20 vols., 
each work sold separately for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

177 - H July 5:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, S.L.C. Aiken of Cleve- 
land says: I have just risen from the perusal of a little volume re- 
cently received at the bookstore of M. C. Younglove, and, without his 
request or knowledge, beg leave to commend it to the notice of your 
readers. It is entitled BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIRS OF THE REV. GEORGE 
BEECHER, late pastor of a church in Chillicothe, 0., written by Miss 
Catharine Beecher. It contains a brief sketch of his early life, let- 
ters, essa. £, and .^crmons, which are well arranged, interspersed with re- 
marks and reflections by the compiler, and elegantly written in her neat, 
clear, and animated style. 

"The subject of these memoirs died young, but he lived long enough to 
furnish materials for a very useful and interesting biography." (6) 

178 ■ H July 5; adv:2/6 - MODERN BRITISH ESSAYISTS - The writings of 
Macauley, Alison, Sidney Smith, and Professor Wilson, for sale by M. C. 
Younglove. (1) 

179 - H July 5; adv:2/5 - FANNY CAMPBELL, THE FEMALE PIRATE CAPTAIN, 
by Lieutenant Marray, just rec'd by M. C. Younglove. (verbatim) (1) 

180 - H July 21; ed:2/l - The publication just issued, THE FRUIT AND 
FRUIT TREES OF AMERICA, by A. J. Downing, contains descriptions of the 
fruits of Am2ric8, with directions for the cullivatitn of the trees, 

the most certiin means of preventing the bad effects of insects, etcetra. 
"Every man having twenty square feet of ground on which he desires to 
grow any variety «. f fruit, will find the possession of this book will 
amply repay him for the purchase." (4) 



33

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 181 - 188 

BOOKS &amp; AUTHORS (Cont'd) 

181 - H Aug. 1:3/1 - EXPLORING EXPEDITION - Mr. Younglove has received 
this great National work complete in five volumes, and five of more in- 
terest and intrinsic value have never been issued by the prolific press 

of this country. The Narrative of Commander Wilkes embraces a very 

large amount of rare historical and descriptive informrition, obtained '■ 

during the five years' cruise of the U. S. Exploring Expedition, and 

the work is illustrated with numerous engravings and maps. The work is 

beautifully printed, and should find a place in every Library. 

(verbatim) (2) 

182 - H Sept. 25; adv:2/4 - THE LOVE M\TCH, by Henry Cochton Esq., 

the complete work for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

183 - H Oct. 6; fd:3/l - "MACKENZIE'S BOOK. - This rare and rich work 
can now be obtained at Mr. Younglove 's. We learn from New York that 
its sale there has been stopped by injunction, and the probability is 
that the number of copies to be obtained will be quite limited. It is 
the book of the season, and all good Whig judges pronounce it the 'best 
thing they have seen.' Van Burenism and Old Hunkerism stand out in 
naked deformity on every page, and all who read the book will think 
with B. F. Butler that there has been great 'want of stated preaching' 

in the parly as far back as the correspondence goes at least." (2) 

184 - H Oct. 24; ed:3/l - Booksellers here are selling a pamphlet just 
off the New York press purporting to be a secret history of the per- 
fidies, intrigues, and corruptions of the Tyler dynasty, with the mys- 
teries of Washington city connected with that vile administration. It 

is a series cf letters to the former acting president, by one most famil- 
iar with the subject. 

"We opine, however, that the people have had such a surfeit of the 
public 'Tyler Dynasty' that the 'Secret History,' like the nostrums of 
quacks, will have to be 'well shaken before taken.'" (3) 

185 - H Nov. 3; adv:2/5 - THE GROVES OF BLARNEY, by Mrs. J. C. Hall, 
also, PHIL PURCEL, AND OTHER TALES OF IRELAND, just rec'd, M. C. 
Younglove. (verbatim) (1) 

186 - H Dec. 3:3/1 - Oregon. - If you wish to know anything of the Far 

West, read Captain Fremont's NARRATIVE, to be had at Younglove's. 

Price 25 cents. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Bookstores &amp; Stationers; Schools &amp; Seminaries - Textbooks 

BOOKSTORES &amp; STATIONERS 

187 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Sanfo d &amp; Hayward, whulesale and retail Deal- 
ers in Books and Stationery, No. 17, Superior street. (verbatim) (1) 

188 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - M. C. Younglove, Bookseller, Stationer &amp; 

Binder, No. 3 Kellogg's Block, Superior street. (verbatim) (1) 



34

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 189 - 194 

BOOKSTORES &amp; STATIONERY (Cont'd) 

189 - H Oct. 8; adv:2/5 - New Bookstore. 55 Superior-St. 2d door East 
of J.- S. Lake &amp; Co. 's Banking Office, W. H. Smith will, on about the 
20th of this month, when his stock arrives from New York, commence the 
sale of Medical, School, Religious, and Miscellaneous books, and staples 
and fancy stationery, (2) 

190 - H Sept. 18; adv:2/5 - Blank Notes. Drafts, Checks, Warehouse Re- 
ceipts, &amp;c. printed in the latest style, and on the best of paper, for 

sale by M. C. Younglove. (verbatim) (1) 

191 - H Nov. 3; adv:2/5 - Maynard &amp; Noye's Black Writing Ink, a good 
supply on hand, for sale by M. C, Younglove. (1) 

See also Books &amp; Authors 

BRASS &amp; COPPER 

192 - H Apr. 5; ed:3/l - Lake Superior copper. "The valuable Lake 
Superior minerals will begin to yield their rich tribute the present 
season, and the prediction is ventured that ere long the Copper of the 
world will be mainly supplied from the Mineral regions washed by the 
Father of Lakes," 

At present the ALGONQUIN, taken from this port and at great labor 
and expense conveyed around the Sault St. Marie and launched upon Lake 
Superior several years ago by the Cleveland Company of which Mendenhall 
was the Master spirit, is now the only American Vessel afloat on that 
lake. Additional vessels will be put in service on Lake Superior this 
season. (4) 

193 - H July 16; ed:2/1 • The NATIONAL MAGAZINE of England exalts in 
its latest issue the success and prosperity of the British copper smelting 
and distributing industry, claiming for that country a monopoly of the 
copper trade. The periodical states among other things that Britain 
exports to all the world some 17,777 tons of copper yearly, of which 

the United States purchases 1,483 tons per annum, and that British ore 
yields 9-1/2 per cent pure metal. The article does not take into con- 
sideration the rising importance of the copper ore being mined now near 
the Great Lakes. 

"The article was written apparently before the researches in Lake 
Superior had arrived at their present perfection 

"There is little doubt but the United States within five years from 
this time will turn the current of the copper trade back from the old 
world." The ore mined here yields 30 to 70 per cent, and there is no 
reason why, with such a yield, enough of the metal cannot be turned out 
locally to meet the entire amount imported from England previously. 
"After this, who can doubt that the United States are destined to re- 
verse the copper trade on the ocean as she has the trade in lead?" (13) 

194 - H Aug. 4; ed:3/l - "The rage for copper fortunes is on the in- 
crease, and the wild regions of Lake Superior bid fair to contain no 



35

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 195 - 201 

BRASS &amp; COPPER (Cont'd) 

trifling population by autumn." Col. Charles Whittlesey of Cleveland 
has already been engaged by the copper company at Detroit to do explor- 
ations in the Lake Superior regions, and other firms are joining in the 
rush for the metal. (2) 

BREWERIES &amp; DISTILLERIES 

195 - H July 1:3/4 - Cleveland Brewery. This celebrated Brewery will 

be let on favorable terms for 5 or 10 years, to suit the occupier, to- . ■ 

gether with about 2000 feet front on the Canal and Canal st. Posses- 
sion given Dec. 1, 1845. I. Kelley. (verbatim) (1) 

BRIDGES 

196 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 21, the street 
superintendent was nuthorized to protect the pier at the new bridge at an 
expense not to exceed $75. (1) 

197 - H Mar. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 4, Mr. Floyd, 
of the street committee made a verbal report on the subject of the new 
canal bridge, accompanied with a plan and an estimate of $600. Accepted. 

(1) 

198 - H Apr. 25:3/3 - At the city council meeting last night, Mr. Wheeler 
called up the report of the select committee on the Vineyard lane bridge, 
and moved that it be referred to a committee of three, with instructions 

to confer with the superintendent of the Ohio Canal and county commission- 
ers, with a view to ascertain if those parties would defray any part of the 
expenses incident to the building of the same. Adopted. (1) 

199 ■ II July 1:2/7 - Proposals will be received until 10 A.M. July 8th, 
at the store of Jno. A. Wheeler &amp; Co., Division St., where draft and 
specification can be seen, for furnishing materials and building a Bridge 
across the Canal on Vineyard lane in the city of Cleveland. Geo. Wither- 
ell, Chairman. (verbatim) (1) 

200 - H July 18:3/3 • In a letter to the editor, George B. Merwin of 
Rockport, 0., says: I wish through your columns to call the attention 
of the county commissioners to the dangerous condition of the bridge 
at the mouth of Rocky river. Several accidents have occurred there as 
a result of broken planking and lack of timely repair. "It is to be 
hoped that the Commissioners will give this subject early attention, 
which the safety of the public and our citizens imperiously requires." 

(5) 

201 - H July 24:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, an anonymous person 
says: The county commissioners meet on the first Mondays of March, 
June, and December, and it is the duty of citizens to report necessary 
repairs at these times. This applied especially to the residents who 
complain of the poor condition of the Rocky river bridge. In relation 
to the latter: "Is it strange the people should fall through a bridge, 
where the planks are net fastened down?" (3) 



36

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 202 - 208 

BRIDGES (Cont'd) 

202 - H Oct. 7:3/1 - In letting down the draw of the Bridge across the 
river at the Steam Furnace yesterday, the chains on the Cleveland side 
gave way, and the draw came dov\n with quite a crash. The machinery 
was considerably damaged, and it will take some days to repair the 
bridge. It is one of the most important crossings connected with the 
city, and we are surprised to learn that the City Fathers took no steps 
at their meeting last evening to put the bridge in passable order, 
(verbatim) = (2) 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 

203 - H Apr. 8:3/1 - Capt. Johnson's Block will extend 63-1/2 feet on 
Superior street, four stories high, will be furnished for stores and of- 
fices, and will add much to the appearance of Superior. He proposes 
to have a spacious Rotunda in the block, with a Post Office building 
conveniently attached. Messrs. Eldridge and * , Builders. 

These improvements, which will add so essentially to the beauty and 
business facilities of Cleveland, have been liberally projected by en- 
terpriiiing "old settlers," who commenced building up here when our 
town was a mere out-of-the-world Western village, and who have steadily 
watched and fostered its interests until it has become the second City 
of the third State in the Union. (verbatim) (2) 

204 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, P.M. Wed- 
dell was granted privilege to remove building to Superior st., on giving 
bond in the sum of $3000 to remove said building within 8 months. 

(1) 

205 - H Sept. 18:3/1 - The buildings and improvements made in our young 
city during the present season .^re generally of the most permanent and 
valuable kind. In all, there have been 217 new structures built. Ex- 
tensive improvements have also been made in removing and repairing 
buildings, so that many of them appear to be new. There are many other 
buildings now in progress of erection. (3) 

BUILDING MATERIALS 

206 ■ H Jan. 3; adv:4/7 - Lumber! Lumber: First Quality White Wood 
Lumber, 1 and 1-1/2 inch wanted, for which cash will be paid by B. F. 
Smith &amp; Co., Foot of Light Ilouse-st - on the dock. (verbatim) (1) 

207 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 - Glass &amp; Putty - Handerson &amp; Punderson have 
for sjle a large supply of 7 by 6; 8 by 10; 10 by 12; 10 by 14 Window 
Glass and lots of Putty to set them. Also, Glass for Picture Frames 
nearly all sizes. (verbatim) (1) 

208 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - D. A. Shepard &amp; Co., Window Sash Manufactory, 
and Wood Turning Establishment, on Canal, opposite Packet Boat Landing. 

D. A. Shepard, C. L. Shepard. (verbatim) (1) 



Illegible 



37

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 209 - 216 

BUILDING MATERIALS (Cont'd) 

209 - H Jan. 31; adv:4/5 - Burlington Window glass. Handerson &amp; 
Punderson. 

The Burlington Glass is unsurpassed for evenness and beauty of 
surface, and for transparency, lightness of color and the general ex- 
cellence of the materials which compose it, is very nearly equal to 
the Crown Glass. 

H. &amp; P. have also a full supply of Pittsburgh Glass 7 by 9, 8 by 
10 and other sizes. (1) 

210 - H July 3; adv:4/4 - Cedar Posts. - 250 for sale, and a constant 
supply by A. S. Gardner. (1) 

211 - H July 16; adv:2/4 - Lumber For Sale. 300,000 Feet of well se- 
lected and well seasoned Pine Lumber. 150,000 feet of good Whitewood 
well seasoned. b00,003 Pine Shingles, first and second qualities. Also - 
Black Walnut and all other kinds of seasoned lumber used by Builders. 
Orders for any quantity of Hemli)ck Lumber promptly filled. Yard opposite 

R. Winslow's Ware house, Ohio City side. A. Whipple. (1) 

212 - H July 23; adv:2/5 - Springfield Stone Ware Depot, 19 Commercial 
Exchange, Office No. 1, On The Dock. 

Wai. Sanderson has op ned a stone warehouse on the Commercial Exchange 
and will sell fire brick, fire clay, and all kinds of stone, on terms to 
suit those purchasing. (2) 

213 - H July 24; ed:2/l - The lumber industry is thriving in the upper 
Mississippi region, along the St. Croix river, and the mills turn out- .'" ■ 
over 75,iJU0 feet of pine plank daily. Agricultural settlements are 
springing up nol far from these uiihs, and potatoes, oats and other crops 
are growing fine in a country of tolerably good soil. The St. Croix 
couiitry is attached to Crawford county, Wisconsin, the county seat of 
which is Prairie du Chien. 

"Where there is work to do and money to be made, the Yankees are al- 
ways to be found; and already the lumbermen of the St. Croix are driving 
a thriving trade in the wild Upper Mississippi regions." (5) 

214 - H Sept. 23; adv:2/5 • Window Sash, of all sizes, manufactured in 
the best manner, for sale at our Sash and Blind Factory, foot of Vine- 
yard lane, on the Canal. Cobb, Sutherland &amp; Co. (verbatim) (1) 

215 - H S^pt. 25; adv:2/4 - 400 Boxes McCully's Window Glass, embracing 
every size from 7 by 9 up to 16 by 20, for sale by Handerson &amp; Punderson. 

(1) 
BUILDINGS 

216 • H May 12:3/1 - Our enterprising fellow-citizen, M. D. Scott, is 
just bringing to completion one of the most costly and substantial im- i 
proveiuents ever erected on the river. It is a noble fire-proof block 
four-stories high. The building will be occupied by insurance, produce 



38

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 217 - 218 

BUILDINGS (Cont'd) 

dealers, coiimission merchants, and others. The master builder of this 
block is John B. Wigman of the Comnercial exchange. He is a German 
mechanic who has furnished a specimen uniting strength, durability, and 
symmetry unequalled in northern Ohio, and which cannot fail to place 
him in the front rank among the many eAcellent builders in this city. 



(8) 



217 - H Aug. 6; ed:3/l - Our enterprising fellow-citizen, J. H. Critten- 
den, is just putting the finishing touch to his well-built and command- 
ing Empire block, and we are pleased to see that Cleveland will now have 
a spacious, airy, and elegant Empire hall for lectures, concerts, and 
various public uses. The hall will accommodate an audience of 750, and 
has seating farijities for 600. 

"Empire Hall is centrally located on Superior, at th'^ head of Bank 
street, and Mr. C. is richly entitled to the thanks of our citizens en ._•. 

masse for setting apart ard fitting up so large a portion of his block, 
with special reftreice to their convenience and enjoyment." (4) 

218 - H Sept. 2:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Observer of Ohio city," 
cays: The Ohio City exchange is a large and commooious building, well 
situ'&gt;ted near the dock?. It was built a few years ago in the height 

of the wealth delirium in expectation of the patronage i.f easterners 
iravelling to the west, but it is no longer needed for that purpose. It 
must therefore go to waste as a "dive" for low characters or be utilized 
as a place f&lt;'r the gathering of knowledge and virtue. 

"It is a first rate establisi ment in all respects for a Sailor's Tem- 
perance Boariing Hcuse, having with its other accommodations a large 
room for meetin^^s and schools. 

"A Temperance House is greatly needed for other classes than sailors; 
but for them so aggravated and obvious are the injurious exposures from 
which the instruction, comforts and protection of such an establishment 
would shield them, that the neglect to provide it, even at great cost 
would be a burning scandal." 

The building could also be utilized as a school for the neighborhood 
children, or as a boarding house for religious young men. (8) 

See also Building Construction 
BURGLARIES. See Crime &amp; Criminals '. • 

BUSINESS. See specific trades &amp; commodities 
CAMPAIGNS, ELECTORAL. See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections 
CANADA 

H Sept. 8; ed:3/l - See Mobs &amp; Riots ■■ ■ .:■■ • - - • ... .•■;.: .„; 



39

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 219 - 224 

CANADA (Cont'd) 

219 - H Oct. 31; ed:3/2 • Canada is a bad climate for English Governors, 
and Victoria had better let the people choose for themselves. Lord 
Metcalfe has been seriously indisposed for some time, and he is thought 

to be in a very precarious state. (verbatim) (1) 

CANALS &amp; CANAL BOATS 

220 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/3 - Iron City Line between Pittsburgh, Beaver, and 
Cleveland. 

The proprietors. Hubby and Hughes and Standart, Ingraham and Company, 
will be prepared on the opening of navigation with a good line of boats 
to transfer property and passengers between Pittsburgh, Pa., and Cleve- 
land, 0., and the different ports on the lakes and the Ohio canal. (3) 

221 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - Pease and Allen, Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants. 

Proprietors of Pease and Allen's line of canal boats - Ohio canal. 

(2) 

222 - H Jan. 6; adv:3/l - Arrival by Canal! The canal boat MOBILE, 
Capt. T. Wyman, arrived this morning, Jan. 6, from Canal Dover, freighted 
with clover seed. At this season of the year, this is a new thing under 

the Sun. (verbatim) (1) 

223 - H Jan. 31:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Forwarder" says: 
"How will the business of Cleveland be affected by the opening of the 
new Canal to Erie?" This inquiry has been so often made that I have 
taken pains to obtain some information on the subject which I wish to 
submit to you. The Erie extension canal will be open for navigation 
early in April. It belongs to a chartered company of Erie. The com- 
pany's charter provides that tolls shall not exceed the rates charged 
on the state canals of Pennsylvania. 

There is a difference of seven miles distance in favor of Erie. The 
tolls by way of Cleveland are two to three times higher than by way of 
Erie on articles passing from the river to the lakes. You will at once 
perceive that the difference in favor of Erie is so great that we can- 
not reasonably expect to retain this important trade unless the toll on 
our canal is reduced to the same level. 

Our canal board ought to act in concert with the cross-cut to make 
such reductions. A reduction of the rate between Cleveland and Akron 
is also necessary. You will oblige by lending your influence to aid 
this object. (8) 

224 - H Feb. 1; ed:3/l - "The communication of 'A Forwarder' yesterday, 
introduced a subject of much importance not only to our city but to the 
Pennsylvania and Ohio Canal Company, the State, and the country so 
largely benefited by the Cross Cut improvement." The diversion of the 
transportation trade from Pittsburgh and the river can only be prevented 

by a lower toll system on our canal. (2) 



40

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 225 - 229 

CANALS &amp; CANAL BO^TS (Cont'd) 

225 - H Feb. 1:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "B" says: "I need not in- 
form the inhabitants of Cleveland that the trade with Pittsburgh referred 
to by 'A Forwarder' in your paper of yesterday is of great importance to 
us. Shall we suffer it to be diverted to Erie another year by the com- 
pletion of the Erie Extension, or shall we take early and energetic 
means to secure its continuance to Cleveland?... This trade we must lose 
the coming season and perhaps forever unless our Board of Public Works 
can be prevailed upon to reduce the lolls on property coming from Beaver, 
to as low a rate as is charged on the Pennsylvania Canals." 

The state would not lose anything by a reduction of the tolls. It is 
better to save part than lose all. Let a petition to the board of pub- 
lic works be prepared and circulated immediately. (5) 

226 - H Mar. 19; ed:3/l - The legislature of Maryland has passed an act 
providing for the completion of the Chesapeake and Ohio canal to Cumber- 
land. 

"The passage of the bill was signalized by salutes of artillery, bon- 
fires, and illuminations along the route of the Canal." (1) 

227 - H Mar. 20:3/1 - The Akron BEACON says: We learn that the board of 
public works has agreed to decrease the tolls on the Ohio canal from this 
place to Cleveland to as low a point as may be agreed upon by the board 

of directors of the Pennsylvania and Ohio canal. We have not learned the 
rates adopted, but it is certain that they will be low enough to enable 
this route to compete successfully with the Erie extension. In consequence 
of the low rate of tolls on the route between Pittsburgh and the lake and 
the probability that the Erie extension will not be free for navigation dur- 
ing all of the season, because of the newness of the work and the reported 
unfinished state of a portion of it, the trade of the Pennsylvania and Ohio 
canal should be quite active this season. (3) 

228 - H Mar. 25:3/2,3 - In establishing the rates of tolls on the Ohio pub- 
lic improvements for 1845, the board of public works adopted the following: 
Ordered, that on the following articles passing from the Ohio river through 
the Pennsylvania and Ohio canal to Cleveland, or from Cleveland to the 
Ohio river by the same route, the rates of toll per mile shall be the same 
as are or shall be established by the board of directors of the Pennsylvania 
and Ohio Canal co. on their canal, (a certified copy of which rates, signed 
by the president and secretary of said company, shall be left with the col- 
lectors of tolls at Akron and Cleveland) to wit: Fish, gypsum, iron and 
nails, glass and glassware, tobacco, sugar and molasses, coffee, white lead, 
flour and wheat. (verbatim) (3) 

229 - H Mar. 27:2/1 - We understand that the Ohio canal will be ready for 
navigation at least to Akron, by Mar. 30, and that the cross cut will 



41

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 230 - 235 

CANALS &amp; CANAL BOATS (Cont'd) 

probably be navigable about the same time. Boats have been operating to 

Warren for sometime now. (1) 

230 - H Mar. 31:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Fair Play" says: "As 
both sides of the question in relation to discriminating tolls on the 
Western portion of the Erie Canal, to enable the State to compete success- 
fully with the Welland Canal, are not, I believe, fairly represented at 
the West, I request you to publish the petition presented to the Legis- 
lature of New York in relation thereto. It will be preceived that the 
movement in West New York is to protect the State against a foreign 
channel. This she has a perfect right to do. And altho' such a course 
would not benefit Oswego, dependent as she is upon a foreign channel to 
communicate with the West, we believe candid business men will admit that 
justice demands a discrimination to compete with the Welland Canal tariff 

of tolls." (10) 

231 - H Mar. 31:3/1 - The Akron BEACON reports in connection with the 
tolls on the Pennsylvania and Ohio canal as follows: The board of di- 
rectors have reduced the tolls on this canal considerably. On dry goods, 
hardware, groceries, &amp;c., from two cents per 1,000 pounds per mile to one 
and one-half cents on all shipments from the lake to the river, or vice 
versa. On molasses, sugar, flour, &amp;c., from one and one-half cents to 
seven mills. On iron, nails, castings, &amp;c., from nine mills to five. On 
cheese, flaxseed, lard, &amp;c., from nine mills to seven. 

The tolls are not reduced on articles stopping at any intermediate ports. 
The same tolls will be charged on the Ohio canal from Akron to Cleveland 
on shipments moving the entire length of the Pennsylvania and Ohio canal 
as are charged by the company so that there will be the same rate of tolls 
from Pittsburgh to Cleveland and vice versa. (3) 

232 - H May 13; adv:2/5 - Summer Arrangement - Best Route from Cleveland 
to Pittsburgh. 

The fast packet EXPRESS v^ill operate in connection, during the present 
season, with Neil, Moore and Company's coaches and Clark and Company's 
splendid steamer WISKONSAN, leaving Warren on Tuesday, Thursday, and 
Saturday of each weei^ upon arrival of the coaches; and Beaver on Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday immediately upon landing of the boat. 

For passage apply to J. M. Shaw, master; E. N. Parks and Company, 
Cleveland agents. (2) 

233 - H July 9:3/1 - John Wills, Esq., has been appointed canal inspector 

at Cleveland. (verbatim) (1) 

234 - H July 29; ed:3/l - The corps of engineers on the Illinois canals 
have been fully organized. William Gooding is chief engineer and E. B. 
Talcott, principal assistant. Both are men of skill and experience, 
(verbatim) (1) 

235 - II Aug. 15; ed:3/l - Figures just released by the Albany ARGUS 
show canal toll receipts throughout New York have risen yearly, from 



42

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 236 - 238 

CANALS &amp; CANAL BOATS (Cont'd) 

$43,762 in 1839, to $75,846 last year. Thus far this year $73,780 has 

been collected. 

"The tolls for the present year keep up well, and the prospect now 
is that they will fall but little, if any, short of those received during 
last year." (2) 

236 - H Aug. 27; ed:3/l - The Toledo BLADE delights over the business 
being done on the Miami canal and justly remarks that since for many 
years yet the great expanse of country along the Mississippi will do 
business with New England and the east through Cincinnati and western 
Ohio, the canal must be improved year by year and a railroad substi- 
tuted when necessary. 

"It is not from any feeling of jealousy at the success of friends at 
Toledo in the increase of their business that we remark upon the above 
extract, but we publish and remark from a desire to impress upon our " . 

citizens the advantages which from their supineness they are having 
drawn from them. The location of our city is such, that with the 
spirited energy of her people having the means to act, she might take 
all this business within her own grasp." (5) 

237 - H Oct. 13; ed:2/3 - The Beauharnois canal, which was scheduled 
for opening yesterday, will bring lake navigation within nine miles of 
Montreal, and ere long our lake vessels of a large class can pass to 
the ocean with the consent of the British government. 

"A few years hence and ship clearances will be made from Cleveland 
to Liverpool, we have no doubt." (3) 

CAPITAL &amp; LABOR 

238 - H July 31; ed:2/l - The UNITED STATES JOURNAL says: "What a 
strange thing is this we call civilization! Where should we find the 
Rothschilds, the Girards, the Asters, the four and five story granite 
and marble houses, the splendid midnight parties, the gorgeous furniture, 
the rich equipage of the opulent merchant, without the labor of these 
same toiling, drudging, shamefully wronged, common people, who alone 
create wealth and who allow themselves to be treated with cold indif- 
ference if not absolute contempt, by those who never earned a dollar in 
their lives." 

"The JOURNAL seems to speak as if in this land we have privileged 
classes, who live in granite and marble houses.... The father of the 
Rothschilds was a dealer in old clothes, and commenced life poor.... 
Stephen Girard was a poor boy, and a- waiter in the cabin of an Atlan- 
tic ship John Jacob Astor is a German by birth, and borrowed the 

first dollar with which he made the purchase which was the commence- 
ment of his fortune The men of wealth in our country are those who 

have made their own fortunes, from humble beginnings.... In this coun- 
try the people are all common, have common rights, common interests, 
and the same common road to wealth, learning, and honor. And if common 
sense and common honesty were more prevalent, we should be a wiser, 
happier, and commonly better people." (14) 



43

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 239-243 

PLACEHOLDER

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 

239 - H July 26; ed:2/2 - Ten thousand people assembled at Burlington, 
la., to see the revolting spectacle of the execution of the Hodges, con- 
victed of the murder of two Germans. The criminals died without con- 
fessing their crime, although no doubt exists as to their guilt. (1) 

240 - H Aug. 28; ed:3/l - Executed. - Carter and Parke were executed 
on the 22d inst. at Belvidere, N. J., for the murder of the Castner 
family, perpetrated in May, 1843. It was one of the most bloody and 
revolting tragedies in the records of crime, and the culprits died pro- 
testing their innocence. (verbatim) (1) 

241 - H Nov. 18; ed:2/l - The first annual meeting of the American So- 
ciety for the Abolition of the Death Penalty was held in Philadelphia 
last week. The president of the society, the Hon. Geo. M. Dallas, pre- 
sided. Addresses were made by Mr. Dallas, Mr. Greely of N. Y., Mr. 
Burleigh of Conn., Dr. Snodgrass of Baltimore, and others. The atten- 
dance was very large. 

We are rejoiced to note that the humanizing principle in regard to 
the death penalty is steadily securing a stronger foothold in the minds 
of the people, and that even now in some states the law-makers have 
measurably abolished "legalized murder." Imprisonment for life is a 
safe, salutary substitute for the sanguinary code of "blood for blood." 
(verbatim) (2) 

See also Crime &amp; Criminals 

CASKETS 

242 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/l - Coffin Ware Room. Daniel W. Duty would re- 
spectfully inform the citizens of Cleveland and its vicinity that he has 
put on hand an extensive assortment of elegant Mahogany, Black Walnut 
and Plain Coffins, of all sizes, which can be had on the shortest no- 
tice. In connection with the above, he has a Hearse which will at all 
times be in readiness when wanted, (verbatim) (1) 

243 - H July 2; adv:4/6 - Gardner &amp; Vincent, opposite the Mansion House, 
Water street, respectfully inform the citizens of this city and adjacent 
towns that they have added to the furniture establishment a Coffin Ware- 
room, where they now have, and will constantly keep on hand coffins of 
every size and description. They have also connected with the business 
an Elegant New Hearse, which will at all times be in readiness when 
wanted. (verbatim) (1) 

CATTLE. See Hay &amp; Feed; Livestock 

CELEBRATIONS. See Anniversaries; Holidays 



44

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 244 - 250 

PLACEHOLDER

CEMETERIES 

244 - H Oct. 22:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Citizen" says: I 
wish to ask our city Sexton if carriages are permitted within the burial 
ground of our city? If not, why were a dozen carriages driven within 
the grounds yesterday? I am informed such was the fact, and my in- 
formant saw a thrifty tree broken down by the carelessness of one of 
the drivers. Will our committee upon public grounds look to this? At 
this season of the year especially there is no excuse for driving in- 
side the grounds. A Citizen. (verbatim) (2) 

245 - H Oct. 23:3/3 - In a letter to the editor, William Stephenson, 
city sexton, says: I wish to say in reply to "A Citizen" that carriages 
are permitted within the burial ground of our city. "As to a tree hav- 
ing been broken down, I would inform my informant that he is mistaken." 

(2) 
CENSUS &amp; POPULATION 

246 - H Jan. 6:5/3 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 3, Elijah Peet 
was authorized to make revision in numbers on buildings, by changing or 
substituting in order to facilitate him in making a directory, provided 
he will receive no compensation except such as offered by persons bene- 
fitted. 

Thirty dollars was appropriated to Peet for taking the census. (2) 

247 - H Mar. 4; ed:3/l - The census of the city of Cleveland just taken 
by Colonel Peet shows that Cleveland now has a population of 9,573. The 
population in 1840 was 6,071. This shows a gain of 3,502 in the five 

year period. (1) 

248 - H Mar. 5:2/3 - The census of the city of Cleveland, as taken by 
Elijah Peet, shows the inhabitants to be divided according to age as 
follows: Infants under four years of age, 1338; children over four 
years and under 21 years, 3127, adults over 21 years and under 50 years, 
4535; over 50 and under 75 years, 384; over 75 years, 19, making a total 
of 9413. In addition, there are 160 colored inhabitants of all ages 

and both sexes, making a total population of 9573. 

Published by order of the city council. J. B. Finney, city clerk. (3) 

249 - H Nov. 26:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Elyria" says: I no- 
tice in your paper of Nov. 22 that the population of Elyria is put down 
at 1,120. "In the village of Elyria without the corporate limits there 
is a population of several hundreds, and the population of the whole 
village is not less than 1,800." (2) 

CHEMICAL PRODUCTS 

250 - H Jan, 3; adv:l/2 - John A. Wheeler &amp; Co.. Saleratus Manufacturers, 
on Dresden-st., (Cleveland Centre,) Cleveland, Ohio. Cash paid for 
Scorched and Black Salts. (verbatim) (1) 



45

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 251 - 259 

CHEMICAL PRODUCTS (Cont'd) 

251 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - Lamb &amp; Dwight, Manufacturers of Saleratus 
and Linseed Oil, near the Float Bridge. Daniel H. Lamb, Elihu Dwight, 

Jr. (verbatim) (1) 

252 - H Jan. 9; adv:2/6 - Ashes - We will pay Cash for Pot and Pearl 
Ashes, delivered at our store on Division-st., opposite Cleveland 

Centre Block. Jno. A. Wheeler &amp; co. (verbatim) (1) 

253 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 • Potash Kettles. - Half dozen for sale, a good 
deal below the market price in order to close them, by Theod. Faber. 
(verbatim) (1) 

254 - H July 1; adv:l/2 - John A. Wheeler &amp; Co., Saleratus Manufacturers, 
on Dresden-st., (Cleveland Centre,) Cleveland, Ohio. Cash paid for 
Scorched and Black Salts. (1) 

255 - H July 1; adv:4/6 • We will pay cash for Pot and Pearl Ashes, de- 
livered at our store on Division-st., opposite Cleveland Centre Block. 

Jno. A. Wheeler &amp; Co. (1) 

CHILDREN 

256 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/4 * The Trustees of Cleveland Township have several 
children on the town of both sexes, from 2 to 14 years of age, whom they 
wish to bind out to respectable families. Persons wishing to adopt chil- 
dren as their own, and will g^uarantee to bring them up as they should be, 
may apply to the undersigned, corner of Superior st. and Public Square. 
No application will be received without good testimonials as to character. 

B. Rouse, trustee. (verbatim) (1) 

257 - H Apr. 18:3/1 - Boy Found - Yesterday afternoon, April 17th, a ' • ■ 
boy about nine years of age was found in the woods about a mile east of 
the City. - The lad is dressed in grey clothes, cannot talk intelligibly, 
and has the appearance of an idiot. The parents or friends will find 

him at the Poor House. (verbatim) (I) 

258 - H July 10; ed:2/3 - One little girl tells us her parent, whom we 
had thought an ideal one, never speaks kindly to her. "Perhaps this 
Christian father, harrassed with the cares of life, was unconcious that 
he had roughly checked the fond attentions of his child; but could cares 
or the interruptions of his child excuse unkindness or a total want of 
tokens of endearment? Will fathers examine their habits on this point?" 
(2) 

259 - H July 26; ed:2/3,4 - The New Haven HERALD rightfully urges that 
mothers of children take care before whipping the infants for every little 
misdemeanor. "How would you like to be whipped for indulging in your 
peculiar griefs in your own way?" it asks of mothers. 

"Capital thoughts for the reflection of affectionate mammas! A 
world of Phylosophy for the government of those who must one day be 

46

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 260 - 264 

CHILDREN (Cont'd) 

governors. There is too little thought in general for the whims, the 
pains, the griefs, the nervousness of children. Let them be judged as 
we would be judged ourselves, and they would escape many a punishment. 



(4) 



260 - H Aug. 20:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Sincere Friend to 
Youth" says: Parents! how often do children forget the commandment: 
"Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother" because, in infancy, you neglected 
to bring them up properly and took little care for the development of 
character. How often have parents later regretted such carelessness 
when they saw their offspring go with the depraved and the wicked, all 
because firmness and purpose were lacking in early training! 

"All that is required on your part is gentleness and firmness - 
unite and excercise these, and your children will be a blessing.... 

"If you wish your children to be worthy members of society, bring 
them up (when young) in the way they should go, and when they are old " 
they will not depart therefrom." (10) 

261 - H Oct. 6; ed:2/3 - There is perhaps no fact better established 
than that man is so constituted by nature that without activity of some 
sort he cannot enjoy soundness of body or mind. Children are active, 
and it is important that they be taught early to lead a useful life. 

"The youthful mind will be active, and if not employed upon that which 
is useful, it will be assuredly be occupied with that which is baneful," 

(2) 

262 - H Dec. 31:2/4 - The following Children are now at the Township 
Poor House, for which the Trustees wish to obtain good places. - Three 
boys of the ages of 1, 2, and 4 years, and a female infant. M. M. 
Spangler, H. Ranney, J. R. Walters, Trustees. (verbatim) (1) 

CHILDREN'S WEAR. See Clothing Trade 

CHIROPODY &amp; CHIROPODISTS 

263 - H July 1; adv:3/4 - Oh! My Corns. Radical cure for Corns with- 
out cutting or the least pain. Chiropodist - P. Franklin, from New Or- 
leans, has the honor to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen of Cleveland, 
that he undertakes the total eradication of Corns, Bunions, Chilblains, 
Nails growing into the Flesh, and every hard substance on or between 
the toes, without cutting, by means of an Elixir of his own composition. 
The operation is performed in 5 to 10 minutes without the least pain, 
with the satisfaction of carrying the Corns or roots in his hand. 

Ladies and Gentlemen can be waited on at their residence by leaving 
orders at my present residence, at the Franklin House. (verbatim) (1) 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS 

264 - H Feb. 21; adv:2/4 - Notice. - The slips in the Baptist church '. - 
will be rented on Monday next, the 24th inst., at 2 o'clock p.m., for 

one year. (verbatim) (1) 



47

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 265 - 272 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS (Cont'd) 

265 - H May 17; ed:2/l • The slavery question is about to produce a 
division of the Baptist as well as the Methodist church. 

A convention of the Baptist church in New England was recently held 
and measures were taken to separate from the south. From the tenor 
of the speeches and proceedings, a complete separation is inevitable. 

"We regard the divisions of the Churches now going on as the most 
important movement of the day, touching our national unity. So soon 
as slavery becomes the dividing line between brethren of the same 
household of faith, it is easy to foresee that our political Union is " ' 
weakened and endangered. It is but the stepping stone, we fear, to a 
wider and more general division; one that will eventually sever the 
confederated ties which now bind the Republic together. The South dis- 
cerned the crisis the anti -slavery feeling in the North is hastening, 
and hence their anxiety to secure the safety of the 'peculiar institu- 
tion' by an enlargement of its territory." (7) 

266 - H June 10; adv:2/5 - There will be a sale of articles with refresh- 
ments prepared by the Ladies' Foreign Missionary society of Cleve- 
land on Thursday evening next at the new brick building on Superior- 
st., one door west of A. Sacket's store. Sale to commence at 7 o'clock, 
(verbatim) (1) 

267 - H Aug. 7:2/2 - At the Erie conference of the Methodist Episcopal 
church held at New Castle, Pa., the last week in July, Benjamin K. Maltby 
was appointed as the preacher of the Cleveland station, and Albina Hall 

and Samuel Stearns to the Newburgh station. (5) 

268 - H Aug. 9:2/3 - Reverend Robert H. Pollock of the Associate Presby- 
terian church will preach tomorrow in the Hancock Block hall at the 

usual hour. (1) 

269 - H Aug. 21:2/4 - Alex Campbell will preach at Empire hall on Aug. 

24 at 10-1/2 o'clock a.m. A general attendance is requested. (1) 

270 - H Aug. 29:3/1 - Ministerial appointments announced at the annual 
meeting of the North Ohio conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church 
at Marion on Aug. 13 include H. S. Bradley in Ohio City, and H. L. 
Parrish and W. Cely in Brooklyn. (4) 

271 - H Aug. 30:2/4 - The ladies of the First Congregational church and 
society of Cuyahoga Falls will hold a fair in Union hall on the afternoon 
and evening of Wednesday, the 17th day of September next, to aid 

in the erection of a house of worship. (verbatim) (1) 

272 • H Aug. 30:2/4 - The organ in the German Evangelical Protestant 
church will be dedicated tomorrow, August 31, 1845, at 10 o'clock a.m. 

The public are (sic) respectfully invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 



48

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 273 - 279 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS (Cont'd) 

273 - H Sept. 16:2/4 - Reverend Levi Tucker, will preach in the Baptist 
church in this city on Sept. 21. (1) 

274 - H Oct. 4:2/4 - The Rev. 0. Scott has arrived in this city and 
will preach in the Wesleyan chapel tomorrow at 10-1/4 o'clock, a.m. 
(verbatim) (1) 

275 - H Oct. 4:3/2 • On Monday next at the hour of two o'clock in the 
afternoon, the corner stone of the first Jewish building for their 
religious worship will be laid on Eagle street, near the burying 

ground; the building to be built of stone and brick. (verbatim) (1) 

276 - H Oct. 7:3/1 - The new synagogue, the cornerstone of which was 
laid on Oct. 6 by the Israelite Anshi Chesed society, will be an orna- 
ment of beauty to our flourishing city. The synagogue will be built 
in nearly the same style as the Baptist church, and will be 35 feet 
front by 50 feet deep, and about 32 feet high, with an 11 foot deep 
basement of stone. It will be erected under the direction of the mas- 
ter builder, John B. Wigman and the building committee, S. Thorman, A. 
Lehman, and L. S. Stern. This new synagogue is the result of the union 
of the two Jewish synagogues formerly in existence here. 

Officers of the Anshi Chesed are Joel Ingelhardt, president; M. 
Strauss, secretary; and Messrs. Tuck, Goldsmith, Newmark, and Frank, 
trustees. (4) 

277 - H Oct. 9:3/1 - At the late sessions of the Allegheny conference 
of the Wesleyan Methodist church, the stations of preachers for the 
Cleveland district were arranged as follows: Rev. James Langdon, 
chairman, Cleveland district; Rev. J. W. Walker, Cleveland station; 
Rev. Jamea Langdon, Strongsville circuit; Rev. James Sikes, Berlin; 
Rev. G. Fairchild, Huntington; Rev. J. B. Ferris and Rev. J. C. Bacon, 
Granger; Rev. R. Webber, Portage; Rev. Thomas Guy, Cuyahoga Falls; 
Rev. J. B. Miller, Chagrin Falls; Rev. D. Pechin, Gustavus and Williams- 
field; the Reverends R. B. Gardner and H. Hotchkiss, Middlefield. (3) 

278 - H Dec. 6:3/6 - The Cuyahoga County Bible society will meet at the 
Stone church in Cleveland on Thursday next at 6-1/2 p.m. A report and 
several addresses may be expected. S. H. Mather. (verbatim) (1) 

279 - H Dec. 12:3/1 - At the quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County 
Bible society held in the Stone church yesterday, the following resolu- 
tions were passed: That it is expedient to form a Young Men's Bible 
society to supply every family with a copy of the Bible and Testament; , 
and that a committee of eight be appointed to draft and report a con- 
stitution. (3) 



49

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 280 - 284 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS (Cont'd)

Episcopalian 

280 - H Jan. 18:3/1 • In a letter to the editor, "Layman" says: "Not 
wishing to moot a theological question, I simply wish to ask a couple • 
not theologically considered: 

"Is the Church of New York, under the present suspension of B. T. 
Onderdonk, without a Bishop, or the Bishop without the Church? 

"If the Church be without a Bishop, what is the Bishop without the 
Church?" 

(H) The PROTESTANT CHURCHMAN states that in Onderdonk' s case, he 
was dismissed from the church, but still retains the title of bishop 
although it is ex-officio. Unless he resigns the episcopate the dio- 
cese must continue without the services of a bishop, as they have no 
power to appoint another. (3) 

281 - H Aug. 28:2/4 - The remaining slips of Trinity church will be 
offered for sale or rent on Monday, Sept. 1st, at 10 o'clock a.m. 
(verbatim) (1) 

282 - H Sept. 25:2/1 - A neat stone chu:-ch is now being erected at 
Euclid, Ohio. The ceremony of laying the corner stone was performed 

on Monday, Sept. 22d. An address on the occasion was delivered by Rev. 
Richard Bury, rector of Trinity church, Cleveland, by whom the services 
on the occasion were conducted. Within the stone were deposited a copy 
of the Holy Scriptures, a copy of the book of common prayer, the date 
of the formation of St. Paul's parish in Euclid, and the names of the 
present officers of the parish, together with the names of the build- 
ing committee and master mason. Also, a piece of American coin, a copy 
of the diocel convention, and two Episcopal papers. (verbatim) (2) 

283 - H Dec. 18; adv:2/4 - The Ladies Sewing society of Ohio City will 
hold a fair in the rooms over Russell and McDole's store in Columbus ,...; 
block in said city on Tuesday evening, the 23d instant, where will be 
exhibited for sale a go'd assortment of fancy articles. 

The proceeds of the fair will be devoted towards the purchase of a 
bell for St. John's church. 

Tickets, 25 cents each, to admit a gentleman and lady. Tickets may 
be obtairel at the bookstores of M. C. Youngiove and Sanford and Hay- 
ward in Cleveland, at Rusf.ell and McDole's in Ohio City, and at the 
door. (verbatim) (2) 

284 - H Dec. 24:2/3 - The fair given by the ladies of Ohio City last 
night was a great success. Many fancy articles of female handiwork were 
sold. A very handsome sum must have been realized from the fair. (3) 



50

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 285 - 288 

CHURCHES § SECTS (Cont'd) 

Mormon 

285 - H Sept. 27; ed:3/l - A professingly Christian mob in Illinois is 
burning and looting Mormon settlements in that vicinity, waging a re- 
lentless war against 20,000 Mormons who have been forced to abandon 
lands, homes, and temples to escape death. The chief sufferers are the 
Mormon women and children. The chief difficulty is a mere difference 
in several religious tenets and practices. 

"Where can a parallel atrocity be found?" (3) 

286 - H Oct. 23; ed:3/l - The feeling against the Mormons in Illinois is 
more intense than it appears, following the murder by the Mormons of an 
anti -Morraonite named Delomire between Carthage and Pontusac, and but 
little is required to fan the flame into a conflagration. 

"These things are deepening and concentrating the opposition to the 
Mormons, and we shall be truly happy if they get away without extermin- 
ation in the spring; for they are unprotected by law, and there seems 
to be no power in Illinois or the Union which can shield them from com- 
bined, determined and united fues." (4) 

287 - H Oct. 24; ed:2/l - The Quincy WHIG states that the Mormons pro- 
pose to emigrate to Nootka, or Vancouver island, on the northwest coast 
of North America, and to organize their holy land there. 

"It is a long journey, but nothing is impossible when a religious 
fanaticism takes possession of a people." (5) 

Presbvterian 



288 - H June 30:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "X" says: A few re- 
marks concerning the l.jte Presbyterian convention in Detroit may be in- 
teresting to your readers. The convention, which has an enrollment of 
2J0, was organized by calling Dr. Duffield to the chair. As usual, a 
business committee was appointed to carve out the work. Various items 
were reported for action. Tue reports of the committees were discussed 
and adopted. 

The report last year in Cleveland was very decided in its opposition 
to slavery. This year the convention went a step farther, and issued 
a more solemn remonstrance against the giant sin. It called upon the 
church to have no fellowship with it. 

"In looking over the convention, I was struck with the youthful ap- " 
pearance of its members. But few of them were in the decline of life. 
It was evident, also, that most, perhaps all, were educated men; and I 
venture to say, that a more talented body of young men is seldom to be 
seen." (13) 

H July 2:3/2 - See Slavery 



51

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 289 ■ 297 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS - Presbyterian (Cont'd) 

289 - H Aug. 12; ed:3/I - The Fifth Presbyterian church in Pittsburgh has 
been papered for some weeks with plain granite walls and a handsome figured 
paper on the ceiling. 

"This is a new fashion which has grown up lately in Pittsburgh, and 
one that adds much to the interior neatness and beauty of Churches." 
(2) 



290 - H Aug. 20:3/1 - The next stated meeting of the presbytery of Cleve 
land will be held at Brecksville on the 2d of Sept. next. (verbatim) 

(1) 



291 - H Aug. 20:3/1 - S&gt;nod of the Western Reserve. The next meeting 
of this synod is to be held at Elyria on the third Thursday of September 
ensuing at 2 o'clock p.m. (verbatim) (1) 

292 - H Oct. 6; adv:2/4 - The Ladies of East Cleveland, (formerly Doan's 
Corner's) will hold a Fair, on Thursday, the 9th of October, in the after- 
noon and evening, at Mr. Coakly's Temperance House, where fancy articles 
and refreshments will be sold, the avails of which will be given to aid in 
the erection and furnishing of a Presbyterian house of worship. (verbatim) 

(1) 

H Nov. 1:3/2 - See Negroes 

H Nov. 29:3/1-4 - See Negroes 

293 - H Dec. 20:2/3 - The friends of the Rev. S. B. Canfield, members 
of his own and other churches in the city, are invited to a donation 
visit at his residence on Bond-st. on Tuesday evening next, 23d inst. 
(verbatim) (1) 

294 - H Dec. 30:2/4 - The friends of the Rev. Wm. Day are invited to a 
donation visit at Mr. Fox's boarding house, No. 64 Superior st., on 
Tuesday evening, Jan. 5th, at 6-1/2 o'clock. (verbatim) (1) 

Universalist 

295 - H July 1:2/4 - Rev. S. Miles, from Pittsford, N. Y., (Universal- 
ist), will preach tomorrow evening at the Apollo Hall from the follow- 
ing text: Math. 7: -13, and 14 V, "Enter ye at the strait gate." 

Mr. Bingham's School is postponed until Monday evening next, 
(verbatim) ' (1) 

296 - H Aug. 9:2/3 - Rev. A. W. Bruce, Universalist from Indiana, will 
preach tomorrow at the Apollo hall, forenoon and afternoon, at the usual 
hours. (verbatim) (1) 

297 - H Sept. 27:3/1 - Ohio UNIVERSALIST. - This journal has been en- 
larged, and appears in a very neat, new dress; Geo. H. Emerson, Editor; 



52

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 298 - 301 

CHURCHES &amp; SECTS - Universalist (Cont'd) 

C. W. Hudson, Publisher. Issued every Saturday, at $1.00 per year. 

By the way, the universalists are transforming the shell of a church 
on Prospect street, whose bare brick walls and untinished condition 
have been an eye-sore for half a dozen years, into a neat, creditable 
edifice of worship, which they expect to have completed in November. 
It is mentioned in the UNIVERSALIST, that the Ladies of the Society are 
busily engaged in preparing for a Fair to be held in November, the ob- 
ject of which is to assist in furnishing the new Church. (verbatim) (2) 

298 - H Nov. 5; adv:2/4 - The Ladies' Benevolent Society, Of This City 
Will Hold A Fair At The Empire Hall On Wednesday, the 12th inst., at 

6 P.M. the proceeds of which will be appropriated to furnish The Pros- 
pect-Street Universalist Church, now being built in Cleveland. 

All kinds of fancy goods, dry goods, &amp;c., will be sold. A Supper 
will be served up. "^ 

Mr. Leland's Band will entertain. Tickets 12-1/2^. Tickets 

(Including Supper) 25^' Mrs. H. F. M. Brown, President; Mrs. M. J. 

Alger, Secretary. (3) 

299 - H Nov. 11; ed:3/l - The Ladies Benevolent society of this city 
has arranged a fair in the Empire hall tomorrow evening, the proceeds 
of which will be appropriated to furnish the Prospect st. Universalist 
church. "We are pleased to hear that many ladies of other denominations 
have kindly assisted in getting up the Fair, which, we hope, will prove 

as profitable to the Society as we know it will be attractive to visitors." 

(2) 

300 - H Nov. 13:2/1 - There was a good-sized gathering of people at the 
Empire hall yesterday, attracted thither by the Ladies Benevolent so- 
ciety fair. A more joyous throng it was never our good fortune to 
mingle with. There were spacious supper tables laden with oysters and 
refreshments, and decorations were plentiful and in good taste. 

A beautiful and ingeniously constructed model stone cottage the work 
of Mrs. Joslyn and Mrs. Shaw of Chagrin Falls, was the fancy article 
of the fair and attracted considerable attention. A pair of patiently 
wrought shell candlesticks also graced the same exhibit. To perfect 
the entertainment, the accomplished Cleveland brass band generously 
added the zest of their choice airs. 

A handsome fund was raised through the fair for furnishing the new 
Universalist church on Prospect st. (10) 

301 - H Nov. 14:2/2 - We learn that the proceeds of the fair Wednesday 
evening, after deducting expenses, amount to $270. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Religion 



53

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 302 • 308 

PLACEHOLDER

CIRCUSES 

302 - H May 22; adv:3/3 - The June &amp; Turners Circus will visit Cleveland 
on May 23 and 24 at the Water front. The performers are of the very 
best order of talents. The proprietors are confident that they will be 
enabled to introduce such performances as will please those who are fond 
of rational amusement. 

Admission 30 and 20 cts. Children 10 and 20. (3) 

303 • H May 23:3/1 - Circus. - June &amp; Turner's Circus is in town, and 
give performances this evening, and to-morrow afternoon and evening. 
This Equestrian Troupe has been much commended in other cities, and we 
presume the pavillion will be well filled. (verbatim) (1) 

304 - H May 30; adv:2/4 ■ North American Circus. G. R. Spalding, mana- 
ger and proprietor, would respectfully announce to the inhabitants of 
Cleveland and vicinity, that his extensive Equestrian Troupe, the largest 
in the U. S. and numbering some of the best performers in the world, 
will have the honor of performing to them on June 11 and 12. 

Doors open at 6-1/2 o'clock. Performance comaiences at 7-1/2 P.M. 
Admission • Box 50 cts.. Pit 25 cts. Children half price. (8) 

305 - H June 11:3/1 - Mr. Spaulding's North American Circus, the Circus 
of the season, in numbers sufficient for an Oregon Colony, arrived to- 
day and attracted much attention. The vast tent is spread on Water 
street, and the gentlemanly manager and proprietor has provided extra 
seats and conveniences, and spared no pains to merit the liberal patron- 
age of the circus going public. His Gymnastic and Equestrian Company 
rank as first in the country. Performances commence at half past seven 
this evening. Performances to-morrow at 2 P.M., and half past seven in 

the evening. (verbatim) (2) 

306 - H June 12; ed;3/l - A perfect jam at the Circus last evening, and 
the performances perfectly satisfactory to the Mullitude. They will be 
equally good this evening. (verbatim) (1) 

307 - H July 18; adv:2/5 - The North American Circus, comprising 120 men 
and horses, will show in Cleveland, July 28 and 29. G. R. Spalding is mana- 
ger and proprietor. Included will be an extensive equestrian troupe, the 
largest in the U. S., and, J. McCoIlom, who turns somersaults while riding 
on two horses; W. B. Carroll, best bare-back rider in the country; John 
Smith, the Prince of Ethiopian Delineators and his band, six in number, who 
will shine darker and loom larger than any band in the U. S.; Yankee Samson 
(the boy strong-man); Baldwin, the man without bones; and other attractions. 

Box seats, 50 cents; pit, 25 cents. Children, half price. (6) 

308 - H July 28:3/1 - Mr. Spaulding's splendid North American Circus ar- 
rived this morning from Buffalo on the steamer TROY, from a very success- 
ful tour through Canada. Exhibition on Water street this evening, 
(verbatim) (1) 



54

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 309 - 317 

PLACEHOLDER

CITIZENSHIP 

309 - H Feb. 3; ed:3/2 - A bill was reported in the Senate from the com- 
mittee on the judiciary, to amend the naturalization laws. 

"The provisions of the bill., .passed into a law, would, we have no 
doubt, guard against the mass of the abuses which are known to have been 
perpetrated under the existing laws, and accomplish a salutary and ef- 
fective reform of our system of Naturalization." (8) 

H Mar. 15; ed:2/3 - See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections - United 
States ■ - 

CITY GOVERNMENT ■•'" ' ' ' 

310 - H Feb. 6:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Fireman" says: "Can 
you inform us where our City Officers are? It is supposed by many that 
most of thera have left town, as there were but a few of them seen this 
morning at the fire, and their services were much needed." (1) 

Council . ' 

311 • H Mar. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 4, a bill for 
the protection of the public grounds and property received a constitu- 
tional vote on engrossment and final passage and became an ordinance of 

the city. (1) 

312 - H Mar. 17:3/1 • The new city council organized to-day, and elected 
the following officers: F. W. Bingham, President; M. Kelley, clerk; 

G. W. Lynde, city attorney; G. Overrocker, market clerk; E. Whittemore, 
harbor master; M. Duow, Street Supervisor; W. Stephenson, city sexton; 
A. Davis, coal inspector; J, M. Bailev, sealer of weights and measures. 

(2) 

313 - H Mar. 22:3/1 - Committees - The following are the Committees of 
the new Council: Judiciary - Bingham, Hughes, and Gardner; Streets - 
Witherell, Gurley, and Ives; Schools - Wheeler, Williams, and Bingham; 
Claims - Heard, Wheeler, and Williams; Fire and Water - Wood, Gardner, 
and Caul; Markets - Caul, Gurley and Wood; Finance - Mathews, Caul and 
Gardner; Harbor, Wharves, and Public Grounds - Hughes, Ives and Wither- 

ell. Next meeting on Monday evening. (verbatim) (2) 

314 - H Apr. 2:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 31, the marshal 
was directed to procure staffs of office, and have them in council hall. 

(1) 

315 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, B. Stedman 

was appointed inspector of park &amp;c. at a license of $150. (1) 

316 - H Apr. 25:3/3 - The city council last night passed an ordinance to 
regulate the duties of inspectors. (1) 

317 - H Jub' 3:3/3 - The common council on June 30, adopted a report of 
the judiciary committee favoring reconsideration of the privilege given 



55

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 318 - 324 

CITY GOVERNMENT - Council (Cont'd) 

by council to S. S. Stone, whereby he is allowed to take up the springs 

in Vineyard lane. (1) 

318 - H Nov. 21:2/3 - At the city council meeting on Nov. 17, the mayor 
was directed to institute a night watch with power to take up all per- 
sons out after 10 o'clock at night and place them in custody until the 
next morning unless satisfactory account is given of their business. 

The clerk was requested to furnish the HERALD with the proceedings 
of the council. (2) 

Finance 

319 - H Jan. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 3, the city 
clerk was authorized to draw orders in favor of the mayor for $134.25 

for services due the late city watch. (1) 

320 - H Mar. 5:3/3 - At the city council meeting of Feb. 28, the com- 
mittee on finance was instructei to examine the accounts of the trea- 
surer, mayor, harbor master, market clerk and weigher of hay and report 
at the next meeting and the clerk was instructed to draw an order on the 
treasurer in favor of John Wells for $200 for services as street super- 
visor the year past. (3) 

321 - H M'r. 6; 3/3 • At the city council meeting on Mar. 4, the clerk 
was authorized to draw orders in favor of judges and clerks of the late 
election, $3 each. (1) 

322 - H Mar. 31:3/3 - On Mar. 17, James B. Finney, city clerk, presented 
the following report to the city council: general fund receipts, $10,276.01; 
expenditures, $10,276.01; road fund receipts, $3,165.18; expenditures, 
$3,165.18; school fund receipts, $8,168.48; expenditures $8,168.48; ceme- 
tery fund receipts, $489.21; expenditures, $489.21; permanent debt, $6, 651. 16. 

(13) 

323 - H Apr. 25:3/3 - The city council last night adopted a resolution 

that the license money be paid into the current funds. (1) 

324 - H Dec. 5:3/2 • At the city council meeting on Dec. 1, it was re- 
solved that Mr. McKinstry be paid $50 the current year for his services 

as deputy marshal. (1) 

See also Awards &amp; Claims; Political Campaigns &amp; Elections - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga; Politics &amp; Government - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga 

CLAIMS. See Awards &amp; Claims 



56

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 325 - 335 

PLACEHOLDER

CLOTHING TRADE 

325 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Powers &amp; Knapp, Merchant Tailors, have removed 
to the opposite side of Superior st., one door east of N. E. Crittenden's 
Jewelry Store. (1) 

326 - II Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - II. Seaman, Draper and Tailor, Superior street, 
two doors west of the Franklin House. (1) 

327 - H Jan. 3; adv: 4/1 - G. F. Tindall informs the public that he has 
just opened a New Boot, Shoe, and Finding Store, No. 24 Superior st., ''., 
a few doors west of the American House, where he will keep on hand at 

the lowest cash prices, every thing in his line. Custom work made to 
order. (1) 

328 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/6 - $2 Will Buy a pair of Men's Thick Boots at No. 
97. J. Huntington. (1) 

329 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - 50 Brocha Shawls, From 7 to 4, Some very rich. 
310 Heavy - assorted Winter Shawls. 170 Plaid Shawl's, 30 very splendid 
Crape shawls. This day opened and for sale at reduced prices at Carlton's 
Cheap Cash Store, 69, Superior st. (verbatim) (1) 

330 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - R. H. Worthiugton, Dealer in Hats, Caps, Furs, 
and Buffalo Robes, wholesale and retail; No. 31 Superior street, opposite 
the American House. (1) 

331 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/6 - Portsmouth Hosiery Just opened at A. D. Cut- 
ter's. Also Ribbed and plain Cashmere Hose; Merino and Cotton Hose, 
(verbatim) (1) 

332 - H Jan. 3; adv: 3/6 - Hats, Caps, Furs, Buffalo Robes, &amp;c. Just 
opening at 13-1/2 Superior st. at the sign of the Mammoth Hat, a large 
and well selected assortment of the Fall Styles. A large assortment 

of Ladies' and Misses' Muffs and Boas. N. &amp; R. Dockstader. (2) 

333 - H Jan. 3; adv: 4/3 - Denker &amp; Barges, have just received at their 
clothing Stores, corner of Superior lane and River st., and at the Old 
Stand on River street, one of the most extensive and complete assort- 
ments of New Fall and Winter Goods ever offered in this market. Gar- 
ments made to order at the shortest notice, and with strict punctuality, 

and in the most fashionable style. (4) 

334 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/6 - 34, 36, and 40 inch Italian Cravats at Raymond 

&amp; Clark. (verbatim) (1) 

335 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/4 - Ladies Black Alpacca Hose, Ladies Lambs' Wool 
Hose, Ladies Col'd Merino Hose, Ladies' Cotton Hose. Children's Hose, of 
all kinds, both imported and domestic to suit all sizes. Please call and 
suit yourselves at Raymond &amp; Clark. (verbatim) (I) 



57

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 336 - 343 

CLOTHING TRADE (Cont'd) 

336 - H Jan. 6; adv:3/3 - Millinery and Artificial Flower Store, 

Superior-St. 

Mrs. Shum Way, would announce to the Ladies of Cleveland and vicinity, 
that she has just returned from New York with a well selected assortment 
of Millinery Goods. Also, the latest and most fashionable styles Bonnets, 
Caps. &amp;c. &amp;c., and would respectfully solicit a share of public patronage. 

Every variety of Artificial Flowers Manufactured to order if required. 
Country Milliners respectfully invited to call. (verbatim) (1) 

337 - H Jan. 27; adv: 1/6 • The subscriber would respectfully inform his 
friends and the public in general, that he has taken the store recently 
occupied by Samuel Morse (next door below Franklin Buildings, Superior 
Lane.) where he intends keeping a general assortment of Cloths, Cassi- 
meres and Vestings, Ready Made Clothing and such articles as are usually 
found in a Clothing Establishment, which he will sell on the most rea- 
sonable terms. Garments made at short notice, in the best manner and 
most fashionable style and warranted to fit. The patronage of the Com- 
munity is earnestly solicited. Isaac B. Simmons. (verbatim) (1) 

338 - H Feb. 1; adv: 1/1 - Tailors. New York Clothing Store. J. E. 
Hanford, &amp; Co., Wholesale &amp; Retail Clothiers, Superior-lane, 4th door 
below Billiard &amp; Hayes. 

A general assortment of Cloths, Cassimeres, and Vestings, which will 
be made to order in the most fashionable style. (1) 

339 - H Apr. 8; adv: 2/4 - Seamen &amp; Smith have removed their stock of 
Shoes, Leather &amp;c. to No. 83 Superior-st., opposite Commercial Bank. 
Particulars hereafter. (1) 

340 - H Apr. 18:2/5 - John Shelly has removed his stock of Clothes, Cas- 
simeres, &amp;c., to the 1st door west of N. E. Crittenden, (in the new 
Franklin House.) (verbatim) (1) 

341 - H May 21; adv:2/4 - Miss E. A. Eaton has removed from the Public 
square to No. IS Ontario-st., and respectfully informs her friends and 
the public in general that she keeps constantly on hand a good assort- 
ment of the most fashionable Millinery. 

Tuscan Bonnets cleaned and altered to the latest shapes. 
Wanted Immediately, 4 or 5 girls to work on straw and silk Bonnets, 
(verbatim) (1) 

342 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - Ladies' Fine Buskin Shoes for sale at the 

Boston shoe store. No. 3 City Buildings. Webster &amp; Co. (1) 

343 • H July 1; adv: 1/2 - J. H. Crittenden, Dealer in Boots, Shoes and 
Leather, wholesale and retail; next door to Bank of Cleveland, Superior st. 

(1) 



58

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 344 - 351 

CLOTHING TRADE (Cont'd) 

344 - H July 1; adv:l/l - Denker &amp; Borges Tailors and Clothers, on River 
street, Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

345 - H July 1; adv:l/l - Powers &amp; Brother, Merchant Tailors, have re- 
moved to the opposite side of Superior st, one door east of N. E. Crit- ■ 
tenden's Jewelry Store. (1) 

346 - H July 1; adv:3/3 - Ladies can find a variety of cheap cloth Ties 
at 50^ a pair. Also a variety of fancy colored Kid and Cloth Buskins. 

J. Huntington. (1) 

347 - H July 1; adv:4/2 - Sl:awls - A few beautiful Barege Long and Square 
Shawls on hand yet at No. 9G. W. &amp; S. Beckwith &amp; Co. (verbatim) 

(1) 

348 - H July 1; adv:4/2 - St. Clair Money. E. T. Nichols, has this day 
received a large supply of all kinds of Hat And Caps, which he will 
sell wholesale or retail at such prices as will make up in part to those 
who have lest by the St. Clair Bank. 

Call soon and remember that a dollar saved is as good as a dollar 
earned. We have everything in the way of Hats or Caps, from a Beaver 
to a Coney. 

Country Merchants will find great bargains, by calling soon. Opposite 
the Franklin House, (sic) (verbatim) (1) 

349 - H July 1; adv:4/7 - Bring On Your Wild Cat Money. The subscriber 
would respectfully inform the public that he has recently opened a large 
and general assortment of Spring &amp; Summer Goods, such as Summer Stuffs 
of all kinds; Blue and Black French Cloths. Brown and Invisible Green 
Cloths; Light and Dark Mixed Tweeds for Summer Coats; Vestings, of all 
kinds; Plain and Fan*, y Cassimeres; Any of which he will manufacture to 
order in the most approved and fashionable style at short notice. 

He will be constantly adding to his stock of Ready Made Clothing all 
garments suitable for the season. 

He has also opened a large assortment of Shirts, Drawers, Stocks, 
Scarfs, Wrappers, Handkerchiefs, Collars, Bosom, Cravats, Gloves, Sus- 
penders, Gents' Morning gowns. 

If good materials and well made garments at low prices are any objects 
to those wishing to supply themselves, they are respectfully invited to 
call before purchasing elsewhere. T. W. Morse, at the old stand, Supe- 
rior-st. (verbatim) (2) 

350 - H July 1; adv: 1/7 - The subscriber has just rec'd a splendid lot 
of Shirts. The public are invited to call and take a look at them be- 
fore purchasing elsewhere. T, W. Morse. (verbatim) (1) 

351 - H July 7; adv:3/7 - Monday Morning, June 2, 1845. Another Arrival 
Of Entire New Styles Ladies Dress Goods, viz: Shaded Tarlton, Balzorines, 
(new patterns), Palmyrines, (very rich) Brocha and Cashmere Shawls, Barege 



59

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 352 - 357 

CLOTHING TRADE (Cont'd) ' " 

&amp; Muslin de Lain Shawls, With lots, lots, and lots of new styles of Goods, 

which will be sold very cheap. H. M. House. (1) 

352 - li Sept. 19; adv:2/4 • The greatest variety of Vestings ever offered 
in this city to be found at No. 69. C. C. Carlton &amp; Greene. (verbatim) 

(1) 

353 - H Sept. 25; adv:2/4 - Under Clothing • Ladies' Silk Vests and Draw- 
ers, Ladies Lambs Wool Drawers, Gents' Silk Drawers and Shirts, Gents 
Lambs Wool Drawers and Shirts, Gents Merino Drawers and Shirts, Gents 
Lisle Thread Drawers and Shirts; With every variety white and col'd 
Flannels to make more, now open at J. H. Kelley. (verbatim) (1) 

354 - H Oct. 2; adv:2/4 - Drawers &amp; Undershirts. - Gentlemen wishing for 
any thing in the above line, will find a complete assortment at W. &amp; S. 
Beckwith &amp; Go's. Consisting of Ribbed Lambs wool, Plain Lambs Wool, 
Merino Lambs Wool, Lisle Thread Lambs Wool (a superior article), 
(verbatim) (1) 

355 - H Nov. 3; adv:2/5 - Franklin Buildings. W. Warren And Co., Ladies' 
Dress Goods, Worsted And Woolen Goods, Family Articles, Shawls, Hosiery 
&amp;c., Domestic Goods. (6) 

COAL 

356 - H Apr. 21:3/2 - The boar J of public works has received, and has 
had under consideration, a petition signed by many of the citizens of 
Cleveland, praying for a reduction of the present tolls on mineral coal 
and on boats used to transport the same. The principal reason urged in 
said petition appears to be that coal cannot be brought to Cleveland at 
sufficiently low rates to compete in the Lake market with coal delivered 
at Erie by the Pennsylvania Erie canal, unless the toll on the Ohio canal 
is reduced. The toll on the Erie canal is merely nominal. Upon a care- 
ful consideration of the subject, and in view of the known advantages 
which Cleveland possesses over Erie in point of location and facility of 
approach for vessels and steamboats, the board is inclined to think that 

a further reduction of the toll on coal is not necessary to enable Cleve- 
land to compete with Erie in this trade, and they would therefore re- 
spectfully decline making any modification of the rates of toll on coal 
at this time. (11) 

357 - H July 9; ed:3/2 - Professor Walter R. Johnson has prepared for the 
navy department an exhaustive report on the comparative values and qual- 
ities of 58 specimens of coal mined in the United States and in England, 
for the purpose of determining the kind of coal most suitable for the 
operation of the U. S. government's war vessels. However, of the 58 
specimens of coal tested, only three were samples of the extensive coal- 
fields west of the Alleghenies. "Thus the principal Coal region of the 
United States was unrepresented in this important trial. The consequence 
is that the Government has ordered Anthracite Coal from the sea-board to 



60

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 358 - 361 

COAL (Cont'd) 

Lake Ontario, while the British order Ohio Coal to all ports of the same 

Lake. 

"The extent and Mineral value of the Western Coal Beds exceeds that of 
the Eastern in about the same proportions as does the extent and quality 
of soil," (12) 

358 - H Juy 14:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "B" says: I am no "coal- 
ologist," but it seems to me that the "Dissertation upon the Origin of 
Mineral Coal," by our friend and citizen, Charles Whittlesey, Esq., must 
attract the attention of all scientific men of our country. It is true ,...■; 
Whittlesey has broached a new theory and has opposed himself to the ■ 
written and universally received opinions of professors distinguished 

for their learning, scientific research and knowledge. But we are told 
in high authority, that "learneJ men are not always wise." 

"If Geologists do not find it a hard matter to confute the opinions 
and facts set forth by Mr. W. in his 'Dissertation,' then I will confess 
that facts are not now as heretofore, 'stubborn things.'" (6) 

359 - H July 18; ed:2/l - The English NATIONAL MAGAZINE of a recent 
issue carries a detailed description of the coal fields in Bear valley, 
about 40 miles northeast of Harrisburg, Pa. Fifty beds of iron ore and an- 
thracite coal are there exposed to view by the cut of the valley. These 
beds are comprised within a vertical distance of 1,160 feet, and the hor- 
izontal distance through all of them measures 4,500 feet. Analysis shows 
this coal is almost identical with the high grade Welsh anthracite: The 
ore, too, is inexhaustible and of high value. 

"Does the world exhibit a parallel to this in richness of mineral and 
facility of access?... 

"Talk about going to England for iron, we might as well go there for 
pork." (5) 

360 - H Sept. 30; adv:2/5 - Tallmadge Coal. Those who are depending upon 
receiving their winter supply of this superior article for Parlor Grates and 
Stoves, would do well to call soon while prices are low. 

Office at the ware-house on the Pier. D. Upson &amp; Co. (verbatim) (1) 

COLLEGES &amp; UNIVERSITIES 

361 - H Jan. 25; adv:2/3 - The undersigned is an Agent for Allegheny College, 
located at Meadville, Pa. and is selling perpetual scholarships in said in- 
stitution, for the small sum of $25; giving the scholarship holder the privi- 
lege of sending one student to the College, free of tuition fees perpetually. 
This institution is one of the best in the country, and the location is a 
very pleasant one; the buildings are large and commodious; in the College 
Library there are 8,000 vols., said to be the best Library west of the 
Allegheny mountains. On this plan great advantages are offered to Parents 
who wish to educate their sons, and young Gentlemen wishing the advantages 
of a liberal education. 



61

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 362 ■ 366 

COLLEGES &amp; UNIVERSITIES (Cont'd) 

The plan will be fullj' explained on Sabbath evening, the 26th inst., 
in the M. E. church, of this city. 

S. C. Thomas, Agent. (verbatim) (2) 

362 ■ H Apr. 9:3/1 • Junior Exhibition. - The annual Exhibition of the 
Junior Class will be attended on Wednesdaj', April 23d, at Hudson. The 
exercises will commence in the forenoon at 10 o'clock, and in the after- 
noon at 1 o'clock. (verbatim) (1) 

363 - II July 23:3/2 - Commencement in Western Reserve College. - The 
Commencement in this Institution will this year be on Thursday, the 14th 

of August. (verbatim) (1) 

364 - H Aug. 14:2/1 - According to a list of educational institutions in 
Ohio, published in the Springfield REPUBLICAN, Western Reserve college, 
at Hudson, has 117 students, and 109 additional in the medical school at 
Cleveland. George E. Pierce is president, assisted by nine professors 
and teachers. Endowments, real estate, total $75,442; personal property, 
$32,700; indebtedness, $32,000. (3) 

365 - H Aug. 18:2/1 - The anniversary exercises of Western Reserve college 
at Hudson, 0., closed on Aug. 14, with commencement and the issuance of 
diplomas. 

The exercises opened on Aug. 13 with an address by Rev. I. P. Wilson 
of Lafayette, Ind., an alumnus, to the Society of Alumni, in which the 
speaker presented a comparative estimate of the past and present. Rev- 
erend Wilson undertook to show the superiority of ancient men over the 
moderns in point of general excellence. 

Then followed the oration of E. D. Mansfield, Esq., editor of the Cin- 
cinnati CHRONICLE, who spoke on "The American Scholar, his field and 
responsibilities," before the literary societies of the college. On the 
evening of Aug. 13, Rev, S. B. Canfield of Cleveland, pronounced the 
concio ad clerum, calling to his hearers to be ever watchful of the signs 
and trends of modern events, so that their duties may at all times be 
clearly outlined before them. The sermon was in every respect worthy of 
the man and the occasion. 

The commencement exercises occurred on Aug. 14 on an extensive pavilion 
stretched between North college and the chapel. Hundreds attended. In- 
cluded on the program were the following Clevelanders: Henry C. Gaylord, 
Edward H. Blackmer, and Henry N. Johnson. Degrees in arts were given to 
13 graduating members. S. M. Treat, Esq., of Cleveland was granted a 
master of arts degree. A benediction closed the exercises. (17) 

366 - H Aug. 19; ed:2/l,2 - The Western Reserve college buildings occupy 
a commanding site on an extensive rise overlooking the pleasant village 

of Hudson, bounded by the hills beyond the Cuyahoga. On the north is our 
own flourishing city, now distant, but soon to be brought within an 
hour's ride by the erection of the Cleveland and Ohio River railroad. 
"Nearly in the centre of the Reserve, and while just out of the bustle 



62

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 367 

COLLEGES &amp; UNIVERSITIES (Cont'd) 

and temptations of large commercial and manufacturing towns, yet readily 

accessible from them, a more desirable location can hardly be conceived." 

The buildings already erected are large and commodious: A chapel with 
a library and recitation rooms; an Athenaeum, designed exclusively for 
the departments of chemistry and natural philosophy; and an observatory 
built of brick. The latter is furnished with an equatorial telescope, . V 

having a focal length of five and a half feet and an aperture of four 
inches, the instrument itself being supported on a large shaft of rock, I 

deep set in the earth. 

The college library contains about 4,000 volumes and occupies the 
basement of the chapel. The literary societies also have well selected ' .' 
libraries for the more familiar use of the students. 

The faculty consists of a president, six professors, and two tutors, 
besides the medical professors and the instructors in the preparatory de- 
partment. Those at present connected with the school have all been mem- 
bers of the Yale university faculty as tutors. "Indeed, we see no 
ground either in facts or reason for supposing that as thorough a train- . 
ing may not be given at Hudson as at any of the Eastern Colleges 

"We are happy to learn that the prospects of the Institution, both 
as it respects the number of students and its financial condition, are 
better than they have been heretofore. It is lamentable to see, however, 
so few, of our young men seeking a thorough, liberal education, although 
it is now placed within the easy attainment of all. And the Institution 
ought to be better endowed; at least it ought to be lifted at once out of 

its present pecuniary embarrassments Cleveland has a deep interest 

in the success of this Institution. Its interests may be identified with 
hers; and her citizens may have the credit and the intellectual and lit- 
erary benefits of a flourishing Institution, almost if not quite as fully 
as if it were actually within the city limits, instead of being an hour's 
distance from them.... If, as we believe on good grounds, Cleveland is 
to become the great commercial city of the Lakes, the emporium of North- 
western commerce; if she is to be the commercial centre of Northern 
Ohio, she ought to render herself worthy of her position, and in the 
very beginnings of her growth direct a favoring eye towards those Insti- 
tutions which at once make wealth a blessing and give it stability and 
perpetuity." (22) 

367 - H Aug. 20:3/1 • At the recent Western Reserve college commencement 

the degree of A. B. was conferred upon 13 young gentlemen, members of 

the graduating class. 

The degree of A. M. was conferred upon the following gentlemen: 

Jacob Patch, Henry Adoniram Swift, Samuel Worchester Treat and Rev. ^ 

Joseph Gaston Wilson, a graduate of the class of 1833. 

The president announced that the degree of M. D. had been conferred 

upon 25 gentlemen, graduates of the medical department. (5) 

See also Medical Profession - Medical Colleges; Schools &amp; Seminaries 



63

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 368 - 372 

PLACEHOLDER

COMMERCE 

368 - H July 16; ed:2/2 - Trade with Boston. We are pleased to hear 
oar Western dealers speak with such satisfaction of their Boston pur- 
chases, and to learn that the trade of the West with that city is rapidly 
increasing. The Bostonians have by their railroads bound every part of 
New England together in bonds of iron, and through their liberality an 
iron road will soon unite Cincinnati with the Lake, thus adding another 
tributary to the great commercial artery which is now coursing from the 
Mississippi valley tu the Ocean city. 

The cards of several of the principal Boston Houses are to be found 
in our advertising columns. (verbatim) (2) 

369 - H Sept. 24; ed:2/2 - The Toledo BLADE declares there is no reason 
for jealousy between that c:'ty and Cleveland in the manner of exports 
and commerce between this state and others, but that each city has its 
own section to serve and does not impair the other's prosperity in so 
doing. The BLADE further states that it is unfortunate that short crops 
have curtailed Cleveland's trading territory. 

The BL/DE'S statements are essentially true, and no doubt the defi- 
ciency of the wheat crop in central Ohio is the main reason for the slack 
of business here. 

"But, Mr. BLADE, we are threatened with causes of evil less temporary, 
we fear, than short crops; and we must exert ourselves by the construc- 
tion of Railroads to counteract them fairly and legitimately. We com- 
plain not of our more enterprising nsighbors, but we must be up at the 
cock-crowing to prevent their drawing more from us than properly belongs 
to them." (10) 

370 - H Nov. 3; ed:3/l - Pittsburgh has appointed 25 delegates to the 
Memphis convention, selected from the most influential men in that City. 

We would suggest that a delegate or delegates be appointed from Cleve- 
land by the public meeting this evening. (verbatim) (1) 

371 - H Nov. 25; ed:2/2 - The Memphis convention is over. "We regard 
this as one of the most important business Conventions ever held in the 
United States, and its influence on the South and West cannot fail to be 
highly beneficial." The convention numbered 500 delegates, and, although 
a majority were Whigs, there was a large delegation of Locofocos, embrac- 
ing some of the most distinguished and talented men of the party. As to 
all the objects of the convention, and as to all resolutions passed, and 

as to all the reports made, there was entire unanimity in regard to the 
question of constitutional power. "This is by far the most remarkable and 
important feature of the convention." 

President J. C. Calhoun gave the opening address. ' (7) 

Foreign Trade • •; 



372 - H Mar. 7:2/1 - Phoenix's bill to permit the exportation of merchan- 
dise to Santa Fe, and adjoining British provinces, for the benefit of 



64

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 373 - 376 

COMMERCE - Foreign Trade (Cont'd) 

drawback, embraces the following places from which merchandise may be ex- 
ported, viz: - Burlington, Ogdensburg, Sackett's Harbor, Oswego, Rochester, 
Buffalo, Erie, Cleveland and Detroit. (2) 

H Aug. 25; ed:2/3 - See Grain 

H Nov. 8; ed:2/l - See Great Britain 

See also Retail Stores &amp; Trade; Tariff; Wholesale Trade 
COMMERCIAL COLLEGES. See Education - Commercial 
COMMISSION HOUSES. See Wholesale Trade - Commission Houses 

COMMUNITIES &amp; PLACES 

373 - H June 28; ed:2/l - The enterprising people of Zanesville have sub- 
scribed $25,000 towards the building of a cotton factory. "Would that the 
capitalists in our Lake towns exhibited more spirit in regard to manufac- 
tures. In Cleveland, for instance, nearly half the year our commercial 
business is measurably locked up by the closing of navigation, and manu- 
factories of various kinds seem almost indispensable to the permanent 
growth and prosperity of the city." (3) 

374 - H July 28; ed:2/l ■ Every few days the Pittsburgh papers announce the 
opening of some new manufactory in that busy hive, and it is a marvel to 
no,te the progress of Pittsburgh manufactures. 

"When will our Lake cities consult their true interests by emulating the 
manufacturing spirit of Pittsburgh?" (3) 

H Aug. 8:2/1 - See Railroads ■ 

375 - H Oct. 31; ed:3/l - The St. Louis REPUBLICAN says the number of 
buildings erected in that city, to date this year, is 2,000, and that half of 
these are of brick. 

"This central city of the West is taking rapid strides in population and 
wealth." .(1) 

COMMUNITY GROWTH 

376 - H Mar. 26; ed:2/l - The rapid growth of our young city during the 
past year must be a source of just pride to every Clevelander. The number 
of dwelling houses, warehouses, stores, and shops erected in Cleveland dur- 
ing the year ending Mar. 1, 1845, is 226. The city improvements commenced 
and contemplated the present season much exceed those of the past year, and 
show that the prosperity and onward course of Cleveland are now placed on a 
secure and enviable footing. No wild spirit of speculation is developed, 
but purchases and improvements are made with an eye to permanent and safe 
investments. (3) 



65

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 377 - 379 

COMMUNITY GROWTH (Cont'd) 

377 - H May 8:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, Harmon Kingsbury says: 

I have just returned from a tour through this state where many evidences 
of enterprise and thrift, especially in Mansfield, Mt. Vernon, Columbus, 
Dayton, and Cincinnati, were unquestionable. Indeed, all classes of com- 
munity, in every section where I have travelled, seem to have waked up 
anew to the laudable enterprise of raising, as speedily as possible, this 
youthful commonwealth to that high eminence of intellectual, moral, and 
physical greatness to which she is destined to rise. But nowhere, during 
my month's absence, have I seen a community more awake or more prudently, 
systematically, and efficiently at work to secure this great object than 
in this most delightful and rapidly growing city in which we dwell. 

"Let Cincinnati, as she marches on in her masculine strength and Jehu 
speed, towards Roman greatness and ornamenting, enriching and directing 
on our southern borders, be called 'the Queen of the West,' but Cleveland 
alone, in point of beauty, order, and self-respect, is justly entitled to 
the appellation of 'The Paradise of the West.'" (14) 

378 - H Aug. 12:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Junius" says: Eleven 
years ago I came to Cleveland with the intention of making this my future 
place of residence, and have been a strict observer of the rapid progress 
of this our flourishing city. There is now sufficient capital stock sub- 
scribed for the organization of two railroad companies, one from this 
city to Wellsville which will be connected with Pittsburgh, and one from 
this city to Cincinnati on the Ohio river, which will make Cleveland the 
great point on the lake for travel to the south and west. Cleveland has 
never seen the season where there was so much building as the present. 

As near as I can find out, there will be erected this year 700 or 800 
buildings. 

"Mr. Editor, I am not aware of the place in the West that has the ad- 
vantages to become greater than Cleveland, for what is there to hinder 
Ler onward course?" (8) 

379 - H Aug. 20:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "An Admirer of Cleve- 
land" says: I was heartily delighted to learn by your last week's paper 
that a correspondent had suggested the idea of giving some sketches of 
Cleveland and its environs. The subject had forcibly impressed me as one 
worthy the pen of some of our most gifted writers, for the externals of 
most of your beautiful little city will not suffer by comparison with any 
other of its years, I think I may justly say, in the known world, yet its 
chief attraction lies not in the magnificient displays of wealth to be met 
with in many older cities, but in the tasteful and rural appearance of the 
grounds and the neat and substantial buildings. Everywhere there are 
signs of taste, plenty, comfort, and convenience, rather than of display 
for its own sake. 

Another pleasing external feature of the place is that it is so un- 
affectedly American, 

"I trust that every beautiful residence about your city may become 
known as it deserves; and if individuals shrink from seeing their own 



66

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 380-383 

COMMUNITY GROWTH (Cont'd) 

names mentioned they should at least christen their homes for the bene- 
fit of those who have a right to know something of the beauty that exists 
in our own land as well as in foreign countries." (19) 

380 • H Aug. 23:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: Some 
person is enquiring, "What is the use of living?" I would therefore ask, 
what is the use of dying? Is not our city fast improving? In fact has 
she ever made as rapid strides as during this summer? 

Have we not a splendid medical college in rapid progress, and a United 
States marine hospital for all this chain of lakes? Have we not been 
amply watered while drouth plagues our neighbors? Is not the railroad 
from here to the Ohio river under survey, and the great central Cleve- 
land, Columbus, and Cincinnati Iron Road co. about to be organized. 
"If I am rightly informed you must answer all these interrogations af- 
firmatively, except what is the use of dying?" (9) 

381 - H Oct. 22; ed:2/l - Our water power is limited, but another and a 
better, that of steam, is at our command, abundant and cheap. If machin- 
ery can be advantageously driven in the east by steam, where wood can- 
not be had, and where coal must be brought hundreds of miles, certainly 

it can be done here, where coal admirably adapted for such purposes is 
comparatively at the door. 

"Let us burn coal here for the same purposes if not to the same ex- 
tent, and penetrate the interior with rail-roads, and 50,000 people may 
live and prosper within our limits in ten or fifteen years from this 
time. - But if we cannot get both now, let us take what is within our 
reach and the other will follow, and each will help to sustain the other." 

(4) 

382 - H Oct. 28:3/1 - Autumn Weather, Buildings, &amp;c. - The weather for 
sometime past has been all that could be desired for fall farming opera- 
tions and for the finishing touches of the builders of towns and cities. 
Go where you will in our city limits, and the evidences of the industry 
and thrift of an enterprising people are manifest, and the regard for 
comfort, taste and elegance displayed in the new private dwellings and 
public edifices, is a pleasing feature in the numerous improvements. 

The great Weddell House will soon be entirely roofed, and its tower now 
overlooks city, country and lake. The Medical College is also going 
ahead rapidly, and Lecture Rooms will be ready for a large Class of Stu- 
dents on the 5th proximo. (verbatim) (2) 

See also Census &amp; Population; City Government 

COMMUTATIONS &amp; PARDONS 

383 - H Feb. 7; ed:3/2 - Since Nov. 1, 1844, David R. Porter, late gov- 
ernor of Pennsylvania, has pardoned 71 convicts, 34 of whom had been 
convicted of murder, manslaughter, and burglary. This abuse of power, 
lodged in the hands of the executive only for the relief of the innocent 



67

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 384 - 386 

COMMUTATIONS &amp; PARDONS (Cont'd) 

unjustly condemned, is censured by both press and courts in no measured 

terms. 

"The pardoning power should always be used with great caution, because 
the idea once entertained that all the rigid investigations of law, and 
decisive action of its ministers can be rendered nugatory by appeal either 
to a weak or dishonest Governor, would most assuredly increase outrages on 
society, already too numerous for its repose, healthfulness and progress." 

(3) 

384 - H July 1; ed:2/l - The legislature of Rhode Island has passed an act 
of general amnesty, freeing Governor Dorr from imprisonment at Providence 
prison. However, the governor will be required to take an oath of alle- 
giance before he can be restored to citizenship. "The Legislature of 
Rhode Island made short work with Dorr's imprisonment, and we trust that 
he will hereafter acquit himself as a peaceable, well disposed citizen." 

(4) 
CONDUCT &amp; CUSTOMS 

385 - H July 3; ed:2/l,2 - We are getting old, not yet "in the sere and 
yellow leaf." but nevertheless with the fire of youth gone. We love, 
therefore, to be with the younger, who bring back all cherished memories 
of our own you*h in the past. It suits our humor occasionally to step 
back again into such scenes, and within the past month we accepted an 
invitation from a friend to join a large celebration in honor of his 
daughter's debut on her 18th anniversary. 

It was a happy evening; the love of the parents, the overflowing af- 
fection of the daughter simply drew from all hearts a willing oblation 
to a peaceful and happy home. 

"The honored one has now passed into the age of womanhood, and the 
child has become the companion. Health, happiness and honor attend thee 
until the marble marks thy resting place. 

"Eighteen years! it is but a brief space, and as it passes quietly 
along, the changes are so imperceptible that each event seems the natural 
precursor of what is to follow; yet looking only at the commencement and 
at the termination, what a dream lies between! how much of joy, but how 
much more of sorrow!" (13) 

386 - H July 14:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, Lucy Ann says: I am 
an eastern girl, and have lived where young men have associations and 
literary societies and support them at an expense of some $600 to $1,000 
per year. Since my residence in your beautiful city I am surprised to 
learn that Cleveland has no "Young Men's Association" or "Reading Room." 
There are enough young men here to support a good reading room or library; 
but I should think they are more fond of riding about in buggies, eating 
ice cream, and smoking cigars, and expending their money for dress, than 
they are of obtaining worth of mind. 

"I think, Mr. Editor, if your correspondent, J-S, wishes to establish 
a 'marriage contract office,' he had better get one up in the shape 
of a Reading Room and Literary Association; and thus young men may be 



68

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 387 - 389 

CONDUCT &amp; CUSTOMS (Cont'd) 

sophisticated in the society of the Educated circles! by taking to the 

lady members of these circles books to read. What say you, J-S, to 

such an 'establishment?'" (6) 

387 - H July 22:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Junius" says: All are 
aware, I presume, that the beauty and advantageous situation of Cleveland, 
the "Queen City of the Lakes," have placed the name of this town on the 
lips of all who have visited here, and have impressed passers-by with 
the possibilities of the cultivation of science, literature, and kindred 
pursuits at this place. We possess cultured citizens and much talented 
material in our population of 10,000; we have speedy means of communica- 
tion with all parts of the union, means of sending and receiving intelli- 
gence. "With all these advantages, why is it, Mr. Editor, they are not 
improved?... 

"I fear the Light Literature that is pouring in upon us, is doing more 
to direct the mind from subjects that are more useful and lasting, than 
any one thing." 

In 1836, Cleveland had a society to promote culture and intelligent 
discussion, but it died in two years time. "I hope the young men in this 
city will make some effort to organize a Literary Association, and if 
they find trouble in raising the necessary funds, to dispose of some of 
the unnecessary pleasures that take so much from the purse, and I will 
warrant a three-fold advantage realized for all their deprivations, when 
the avails are used for the cultivation of the mind in this way." (9) 

388 - H Sept. 2; ed:2/3 - How many judge of a person's character by the 
cut of his coat, his manners, and conversation! A person well dressed 
is supposed to possess a good mind and a virtuous heart, while a ragged 
man, with a patch on his knee, passes for a villain or simpleton. Dress 
and appearance seem to be everything in the world. A rotten-hearted 
scoundrel, if he dresses well, converses fluently, and presents a fair 
exterior, may move in the best of circles. 

"This is wrong. A man should be judged by his heart - his general 
deportment and character - and not by his outward appearance. - If he 
is a villain in broadcloth, he should be detested as if he were dressed 
in homespun, and received his support by deception and roguery." (3) 

389 - H Sept. 6:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A.D.H." says: There is 
something delightful in social intercourse at a public hotel or meeting 
place. The cold etiquette of fashionable life is laid aside; a recital of 
mutual sorrows awakens mutual sympathies; the spirit of companionship un- 
looses the most shy, and strangers become friends. Such was the gathering 
of guests at the American House recently, a pleasant exchange of comment 
and opinion, until a coach drove up and the newly-arrived rowdies broke 
the peace with loud cries for drink. "Hurrah for the d--d hostler," they 
cried; then, upon finding out that the American is a temperance house, 
their curses were loud and their ravings long. They called down the house, 
its guests, temperance, and the hostler, and then drove away with a yell 
that might have shamed a savage. Such are the doings of drink. 



69

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 390 - 393 

CONDUCT &amp; CUSTOMS (Cont'd) 

"And what is this pleasure? Does it consist in the mere act of drink- 
ing? - in the exhilaration produced by the intoxicating draught? - in 
the wild dream of joy that for a brief hour removes sorrow and sadness, 
duty and responsibility, and makes life a fairy vision gilded with the 
dazzling splendors of an unclouded sun, or reflecting the varied hues of 
the rainbow? 

"The threatenings of Jehovah are like himself, immutable; and those 
who dare to defy the wrath of Omnipotence, will find that 'it is a 
dreadful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.'" (19) 

390 - H Oct. 10:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Ada" says: Now that 
the summer has faded and cold winter is already heralding its approach 
with cold rains and squalls, I ask, how will the fortunate wealthy oc- 
cupy their time? Will they trip the light fantastic? Will any wrap 
themselves more closely in warm furs and say to the poor, "be ye clothed 
and be ye fed" without giving anything more than sympathy? Let them 
bend their efforts towards aiding others, and give material evidence of 
their charity. 

"Let all bear then with cheerfulness the lot assigned them, and go 
forward in the cause with renewed zeal, untiring perseverance, and with 
a singleness of purpose, and not in the least shrink from following that 
beautiful example of One who tho 'he was poor, yet went about doing good.'" 

(13) 

391 - H Nov. 18; ed:3/2 - Worth Remembering. - Newton said, "Endeavor 
to be first in your trade or profession, whatever it may be." And this, 
by the way, is the secret of success and excellence. It matters com- 
paratively little what that trade, or occupation, or profession may be, 
provided it is useful. (verbatim) (1) 

392 - H Dec. 19:3/2 - Mr. Harris: Will any gentleman permit his Carriage 
to stand so near the Church door steps at the close of service as to 
block up nearly two-thirds of the way; and thereby detain all the con- 
gregation and oblige females and others to wade around through mud? 

"A word to the wise, &amp;c." Civilitas. (verbatim) (1) 

CONSTRUCTION. See Bridges; Building Construction; Building Materials; Hospitals; Hotels &amp; Lodgings; Railroads; Roads &amp; Highways 

COPPER. See Brass &amp; Copper 

COSMETICS &amp; TOILET GOODS 

393 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 - Chinese Hair Eradicator! - A supply by Express 
just rec'd by C. S. Mackenzie &amp; Co. Phoenix Buildings. (verbatim) (I) 



70

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 394 - 400 

COSMETICS &amp; TOILET GOODS (Cont'd) 

394 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/5 - Attention Ladies!! 

A choice lot of "Ede's" most exquisite perfumes - 
Just rec'd and for sale by 
Mackenzie &amp; Haskell's, 

Phoenix Buildings. (1) 

395 - H Jan. 3; adv: 3/3 - Bay Water, Lavender, and Cologne, warranted 
genuine articles, at Hastings'. (1) 

396 - H July 3; adv:4/5 - Toilet soaps and Perfumery of all kinds at 
Hastings'. (verbatim) (1) 

397 - H Aug. 26:3/1 - Pearl Water For The Face. - Put a half pound of 
Spanish oil soap, scraped very fine, into half a gallon of boiling water. 
Stir it well, and let it stand till cold. Add a quart of rectified spirit 
of wine and half an ounce of rosemary; stir again. This liquid should be 
kept in glass vials well stopped, and will be found to be an excellent 
cosmetic for removing freckles from the face, and for improving the com- 
plexion, (verbatim) (1) 

COTTON 

398 - H Oct. 4; ed:3/l - Springfield, Mass., boasts ten cotton mills 
and a capital of $2,400,000 employed in the cotton industry there, plus 
other industries totalling over a million dollars in capital. Employ- 
ment is thus given to several t'lousand persons. 

"The growth and prosperity of this important New England town, es- 
tablish the marked advantages derived from fostering manufactures." (3) 

COURTS 

399 - H June 10:3/1 - At the term of common pleas court just closed, 

17 persons were convicted and sentenced. Nineteen new indictments were 
found by the grand jury. (2) 

400 - H July 18:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Not A Justice" says: 
There is an obvious need of change in the manner in which litigants 
bring up their cases for hearing. Vihen a plaintiff wishes to sue, he 
states his case before a justice of the peace, of course giving details 
favorable to himself. This would be well if the justice were merely a 
jury, but he is not alone obliged to act as a jury. He is also a judge, 
and is thus made to judge in his own cause. The summons is made out by 
the justice who is to sit in judgment. However erroneously the action 
may be commenced by him, he is to judge of it himself; and it is a fact 
that a majority of our justices are anything but able lawyers. 

In some states, actions are begun only by attorneys, which system 
often saves much expense to the litigants. "Yet, if the condition of 
the people would not admit of such a provision, why might not the pro- 
cess be issued by a neighboring magistrate, that the Justice acting in 
the cause, might be freed from the awkward position of sitting in judg- 
ment upon his own acts?" (12) 



71

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 401 - 405 

COURTS (Cont'd) 

401 - H July 24:3/1 - Public Meeting. A public meeting of the citizens 
of Cleveland will be held at the court house this evening, for the pur- 
pose of considering and expressing their opinion upon the recent outrage 
by which several citizens of Ohio, without process or color of law, were 
seized, carried into Virginia and incarcerated in one of her jails, 
(verbatim) (1) 

402 - H July 25:2/2,3 - At a meeting of the citizens of Cuyahoga county, 
without distinction of party held at the court house in the city of 
Cleveland last evening, John A. Foot, Esq., was appointed chairman, and 
John E. Cary, secretary. The following resolutions were introduced by 
E. Wade, Esq., and passed at t'-e mf^eting; 

Whereas this meeting having learned that three citizens of Ohio have 
been recently seized in the county of Washington in this state by citi- 
zens of Virginia without any legal process and forcibly abducted from 
this state and are now confined in jail in the town of Parkersburgh in 
the state of Virginia, which act is but a repetition of injuries inflicted 
by citizens of the bordering slave states upon the citizens of this state, 
be it 

Resolved, that we recommend to the governor of this state that he 
forthwith demand the liberation of said citizens of Ohio and take proper 
measures to prevent their detention or being brought to trial on any pro- 
cesses sued out since their seizure and abduction. 

Resolved, that should the authorities of Virginia refuse to liberate 
said citizens of Ohio, we recommend that the governor of this state rep- 
resent the fact to the President of the United States for action. 

Resolved that all persons who were concerned in said seizure ought to ' 
be demanded for trial in Ohio, and that a copy of the above be sent to 
the governor of Ohio. 

S. P. Chase, Esq., of Cincinnati, addressed the meeting in an able and 
eloquent manner in support of the above resolutions. (9) 

403 - H July 25; ed:2/l - It appears now that the reported abduction of 
several Ohio citizens ^ Virginia residents and their incarceration in a 
Virginia jail without due process of law was all a hoax, perpetrated by 
some mischief -doer. "Vile as is the hoax, for the sake of continued 
peace and good feeling between Ohio and Virginia, we greatly rejoice 

that the whole story is without foundation." (3) 

404 - H July 28; ed:2/2,3 - The Cincinnati GAZETTE for July 18 describes 
the capture and incarceration of several Ohio citizens by Virginians, 

thus blasting the hope of those who thought the story of the outrage a 

mere prankster's invention. The reported abduction, we regret to learn, 

is no hoax. (3) 

405 - H Sept. 3:3/1 - During the recent term of the court of common pleas, 
four men were convicted of burglary and larceny, one of incest, one of 
grand larceny, and one of stabbing. Their conviction and transportation 



72

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 406 - 409 

COURTS (Cont'd) 

to the penitentiary cost the state $702.69. 

There were also five convictions for assault and battery and five for 
petit larceny. (1) 

406 - H Sept. 12:2/1 - At its recent sessions in this county, the su- 
preme court decided, in the case brought by the clerk of common pleas 
court against the county commissioners, that the latter are obliged to 
supply the clerk with blank paper and supplies in addition to light, 
heat, etc. The court, however, sustained our auditor, Briggs, in the 
position he took respecting payment of fees to associate judges in cases 
of habeas corpus. 

On an application for a writ of mandamus, to compel the auditor to 
audit a claim of this kind, the court ruled that the statute providing 
the payment of two dollars per day to associate judges for services in . 
court does not extend to cases of habeas corpus, on the ground that 
when the statute creates an office and fixes compensation for that of- 
fice, and then prescribes other duties and is silent as to additional 
compensation, the latter services are incident to the office and must be 
discharged gratuitously. (5) 

407 - H Nov. 28; ed:2/l - The case of the three Ohioans, abducted by 
Virginia sheriffs from Ohio territory and jailed in a Virginia prison, 
rests now upon the question of boundary. If a satisfactory decision is .'" 
not given in favor of the prisoners by the general court of Virginia, 

it will be appealed to the U. S. Supreme Court. "We are glad to learn 
that Mr. Vinton will attend the session of the Court at Richmond, and 
argue the case for the defendants." . (2) 

See also Crime &amp; Criminals; Damage Suits . . 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS 

408 - H Jan. 11; adv:2/4 - Found on the night of the 3d of January, on 
Bank st. in this city, in the possession of two thieves, 1 large brass 
kettle, 1 axe, marked on the pole with the letter U; also, 1 pair of 
black stockings. 

The above named property is left by me at the mayor's office for the 
owner. Thos. McKinstry, deputy marshal. (verbatim) (1) 

409 - H Feb. 7; ed:3/l - A bill providing severe punishment for criminal 
licentiousness is now before the legislature of New York, and if members 
are guided by public opinion and a desire for suppression of vice and 
immorality, the bill will become a law. 

"The tragedies of blood enacted in the Eastern cities within a year 
or two past, growing out of the want of laws to punish adequately the i 

crime of seduction, point forcibly to the necessity of severe penal 
enactments on the subject." _ r 

Public opinion has already more than half sanctioned the use of the 
knife and the pistol in the hands of the female avengers. - Interpose 
at once the shield of severe penal laws. (4) 



73

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 410 - 418 ' ^ 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS (Cont'd) 

410 - H Feb. 25; ed:3/l - Henry Thomas, alias Thomas Dean, who we under- 
stand, resided in this city some two years ago, was arrested recently in 
Lancaster, Pa. on a charge of burglary. Thomas has been identified as 
one of the four men accused of murdering Frederick Edwards in Rossbergh, 
0., on the 19th of November last. Governor Bartley has forwarded his req- 
uisition for the accused. (6) 

411 - H Mar. 11:2/2,3 • In the court of Common Pleas Judge Hayward, the 
following case was disposed of on Mar. 8: State of Ohio versus William 
Sage, petit larceny. - He is charged with stealing three quilts, 16 
plates, and one saw from the canal boat EDWIN FOREST, in Cleveland, the 
property of one Deming. The verdict was guilty. (2) 

412 - H Mar. 11:2/2,3 - In the court of common pleas Judge Hayward, the 
following case was disposed of yesterday: H. B. Gilbert was found 
guilty of entering the residence of B. S. Welch of Cleveland and taking 
silver valued at four or five dollars. (8) 

413 - H Mar. 12:3/3 - In tfie court of Common Pleas Judge Bissell, the 
following case was disposed of yesterday: 

State versus B. Lngan. grand larceny for stealing a trunk, carpet 
bag, overcoat, and a quantity of shirts and other articles - verdict, 
guilty. Value of property stolen, $56. (2) 

414 - H Mar. 12:3/3 - In the court of Common Pleas Judge Bissell, the 
following case was disposed of yesterday: 

State versus J. Haynes, assault and battery - defendant charged with 
having assaulted and beaten his wife, Hannah Haynes - verdict, guilty. (1) 

415 - H Mar. 12:3/3 - In the court of Comiion Pleas, Judge Bissell, the 
following case was disposed of. Mar. 11: State versus A. Chamberlin; 
defendant charged with having cut a live chestnut tree on the premises 

of George B. Merwin - no defense set up - verdict, guilty. (1) 

416 - H Apr. 16; ed:3/l - The jury late on Apr. 12 returned a verdict of 
guilty with a recommendation to Mercy, in the case of Polly Bodine, ar- 
raigned for the murder of Mrs. Houseman. "The prisoner conducted her- 
self with great propriety and firmness during the protracted trial of 
twenty-two days, and received her sentence with apparent stoicism." (1) 

417 - H Apr. 16:3/1 - That keen, indefatigable police officer, Mr. Mc- 
Kinstry, succeeded today in securing an old offender by the name of 
Peter Francisco, who broke jail at Norwalk on the 10th inst., to escape 
a trial for burglary. Francisco has a noted name for villainy in Canada 

as well as on this side of the lake. (verbatim) (1) 

418 - H May 9:3/1 - The splendid new stock of crockery just opened by 
Huntington and Brooks was examined last night by a burglar. The crockery 



74

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 419 - 424 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS (Cont'd) 

was removed from the crates without a piece being broken. It was not 

taken, however. A few dollars in change was abstracted. (2) 

419 - H May 27:3/1 - The house of George Soren, 9 College place, was 
robbed on May 22 of a pocket-book containing $2,000 in bills and a large 
amount of acceptances, notes, drafts, etc. 

One thousand six hundred dollars was recovered the next day on the 
premises of John Gelmartin, who was arrested with three others accused 
of being confederates. (1) 

420 - H June 6:2/1 - The drug store of Dr. Clarke was entered on Wed- 
nesday night by burglars, but nothing of much value stolen. 

Last night the hardware store of Mr. Moore was entered, and $60 
stolen. 

The public and citizens should be on the watch for the adroit and 
daring robbers. (verbatim) . (1) 

421 - H June 7:2/1 - The burglars transferred their operations to Ohio 
City last night. Two dwelling houses were entered, the pockets of the 
owners examined, and a few dollars in change stolen. (verbatim) (1) 

422 - H June 9:3/1 - The gang of villains now infesting our city have 
become so frequent and bold in their operations that we hear our citi- 
zens have generally determined on a resort to the efficacy of cold lead. 
For six nights in succession stores and dwellings have been broken open, 
and small amounts stolen. The store of Messrs. Alexander &amp; Co. was en- 
tered on Saturday night and a dwelling house, and last night the store 
of Mr. Powell. 

Occupants of buildings are arming themselves, and burglars may expect 
a warm reception from "six shooters" unless they suspend operations and 
leave forthwith. (verbatim) (2) 

423 - H June 16; ed:3/l - We have been informed that there are a number 
of females in this city who go from house to house with divers tales to 
obtain clothing. Some ask to borrow a certain white dress for a pattern. 
Others ask to borrow articles of mourning, as they have lost friends. 
Still others go into houses and rob clothes presses and take away anything 
they can lay their thieving hands upon. 

"These characters should be watched, and be detected. 

Let all be on their guard." (3) 

424 - H July 1; adv:3/3 - $100 Reward!!! The store of the subscriber 
was entered on Wednesday night and about $500 in money taken, as well 
as one elegant spy glass and one elegant pair of slippers of wrought 
colored work. 

The above reward will be paid for either the money or the thief. Any 
information given will be suitably rewarded. G. W. Lyman, Akron, or 
Alexander Seymour and Company, Cleveland. .. ,, (3) 



75

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 425 - 430 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS (Cont'd) 

425 - H July 14:3/1 - St. Mary's church in this city was entered by bur- 
glars on July 7, and robbed of one chalice, a ciborium, an ostensorium, 
two sets of girandoles, six small cassocks, and as many surplices. 

The tabernacle, containing two of the sacred vessels, was carefully 
taken down from the altar, and so mechanically taken apart as to lead 
one to the belief that some person well acquainted with the church must 
have had a hand in the sacrilege. (2) 

426 - H July IG; ed:2/2 - The judges of the supreme court of New York 
have granted a new trial in the case of Polly Bodine. She will prob- 
ably go unwhipt of justice, a new trial being equivalent to an acquit- 
tal, (verbatim) (1) 

427 - H July 22; ed:3/l - The trial of Green at Troy for the murder of 
his wife closed last Saturday with a verdict of guilty. The prisoner 
was sentenced to be hanged on the 10th of September next. No doubt can 
be entertained that he was guilty of as cold-blooded and remorseless 

murder as was ever perpetrated. (verbatim) (1) 

428 - H July 23; ed:3/2 - It has been rumored that Henrietta Blanchard, 
who shot a man in New Orleans recently, has died from poison self-admin- 
istered. The latest reports, however, are that she is definitely alive. 
"It was the offspring of some one who thinking the story had not suffi- 
cient romance about it threw in the 'death' to finish the scene." (2) 

429 - H July 25; ed:3/2 - After 12 days devoted to the examination of 
testimony and its exposition by counsel, the trial of Green has termin- 
ated in the verdict of guilty, and the sentence of the highest penalty 
of the law was passed upon the accused. The crime for which the pris- 
oner has been convicted was that of murdering his young wife the first 
week of their honeymoon by giving her arsenic in her food. He was about 
22 years of age, wealthy, and well educated, and his wife about 18 years 
old, without fortune or position in society, but of good character. 

"Yet, as if the murder of a young, innocent and unprotected girl, by 
the husband, to whose love she had but a few days before been consecrated, 
through such cruel tortures, by such cowardice and malignity, were not suf- 
ficiently revolting, it seems that a new horror is lent to the tragedy by 
the suspicion that the mother of the brutal young man had instigated him 
to the deed." (4) 

430 - H Aug. 11:2/4 - Stolen from a buggy wagon, hitched in front of ■•■■■■ 
Anson Haydn's on the 9th inst., between the hours of 2 and 3 o'clock, a 
black beaver cloth cloak, lined with brown cassimere. Said cloak had 
wings or sleeves. Whoever will detect the said thief and return the 

cloak to said Anson Haydn, shall receive a reward of $5. H. A. Haydn. 
(verbatim) (1) 



76

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 431 - 436 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS (Cont'd) 

431 • H Aug. 14:3/1 - John Wiliis, alias Jon Van Horn, was arrested by 
officers McKinstry and Bliss on tiie charge of breaking into and enter- 
ing the store of N. and R. Docksteader of this city and stealing a quan- 
tity of caps and hats on Aug. 9. The defendant was examined before 
Esquire Barr, and held to bail in $500 for his appearance at the next 

term of court; but not being able to obtain the bail, he was committed ?ij 
for trial. / '! 

The defendant arrived in this city from Buffalo by the steamboat 
WISCONSIN, and, it is said, stole on the same day a cloak from Mr. 
Haydn's bugpy. The cloak can be had at the marshal's office in this 
city. ° (2) 

432 - H Aug. 15; ed:3/l - Peter Jones of Rochester, N. Y., was robbed 
of $303 in a New York brothel on July 23, and has raised quite a stir 
about it. 

"We publish the above not that we have any sympathy for Peter Jones, 
but to give notoriety to Peter, and pass him round for an ass in three 
respects: first, for visiting a brothel - second, for going there with 
$600 - and lastly, for telling of it." (3) 

433 - H Aug. 21:3/1 - A man calling himself Bullet was arrested this 
morning and committed to jail. He had been stopping at most of the city 
hotels for some time past, and, it is alleged, committed depredations 

as opportunity offered, A bunch of skeleton keys, a cold chiseli and 
various keys pilfered from our citizens were also secured. Bullet was 
about to leave on the CHESAPEAKE when nabbed. (I) 

434 - H Aug. 27; ed:2/3 - Justice Taylor of New York has furnished the 
authorities with a detailed statement showing the number of persons 
brought before him during the last six months, and their offenses and 
nationalities. The report also embodies the percentage of occurrence of 
various types of crimes. 

"Before efficient legislation can be had to prevent, or even to re- 
duce the quantity of crime, we must be furnished with accurate informa- 
tion respecting it, and one important step will be the acquisition of 
fiuch statistics as this deduced from Mr. Taylor's statement." (4) 

435 - H Sept. 3:3/1 • The following persons were convicted of burglary 
and larceny by the court of common pleas during its late session, and 
were sentenced to the penitentiary for three years each: John Mills, 
Joseph Richardson, Daniel Cameson, and Benjamin Spencer. (1) 

436 - H Scot. 3:3/1 - During its recent session, the court of common 
pleas found George Daniels guilty of grand larceny and sentenced him to 
serve five years in the penitentiary. 

The following persons were found guilty of petit larceny and sentenced 
as indicated: Edmund Taylor $100 and costs; Mastin Carlin and Joseph 
Foster, ten days on bread and water; Ann Herley, six dollars and costs; 
John Wilcox, $25 and costs and 30 days on bread and water. (2) 



77

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 437 - 444 

CRIME &amp; CRIMINALS (Cont'd) 

437 • H Sept. 3:3/1 - Phillip Barnel was convicted of incest and sentenced 
to serve ten years in the penitentiary by the court of common pleas during 
its recent session. (1) 

438 - H Sept. 3:3/1 • William Mahoney was found guilty of stabbing during 
the recent term of the court of common pleas, and sentenced to serve five 
years in the penitentiary. 

The following persons were found guilty of assault and battery and sen- 
tenced as indicated: Hiram Tuttle, five dollars and costs; Spencer S. 
Fuller, $25 and costs; Edward Butcher, ten dollars and costs; Michael 
Denser, five dollars and costs; and William Lagougue, $150 and costs. (1) 

439 - H Sept. 8; ed:3/l • O'Blenis, whom our readers will remember was 
charged with having murdered young Coombs by riding up to him and shoot* 
ing him down in open day, has been tried at Point Coupee, but the jury 
could not agree, and he was bailed in $15,000. 

"The murder was as plain, direct and open, with malice and without 
cause, as ever was committed." (1) 

440 - H Sept. 22:3/2 • Buffalo police have arrested and are holding Drs. 
William Waterman and Delas W. Hovey on the charge of grave robbing, fol- 
lowing the discovery of the bodies of two females, a colored person, and 
a child in their rooms in that city. It appears the bodies were intended 
for the Willoughby institution, and were to be shipped to Cleveland via 
Canada. Both men are westerners, but - whether of Cleveland it is as yet 
unknown. (4) 

441 - H Sept. 24:3/1 - Clothed for the Season • Constable Smith arrested 
a man today calling himself Paine, having in his possession a lot of sto- 
len clothing and on his person four coats! three of them over-coats - 
rather a surplusage even for this raw equinoctial. The coats are in pos- 
session of Officer Smith. (verbatim) (1) 

442 - H Sept. 27; adv:2/5 - Five dollars Reward!!! I will pay the above . 
reward for apprehension and conviction of the scoundrels who at about 2 
o'clock this morning attempted to break into my premises and, failing to 
do so, stoned and broke my windows. 

A part of the party were recognized and they may save themselves from 
exposure by coming forward and paying damages, Sc. E. M. Segur. (1) 

443 - H Oct. 20; adv:2/6 - Thieves! Thieves! A couple of men, one tall, 
shabbily dressed, and feinting a limp, and the other, well dressed in black, 
entered my house on Oct. 16 and made away with Aikens' BRITISH POETS, 

a large octavo volume, bound in Turkish morocco. A reward for whomever 
catches the scamps. William Strong. (2) 

444 - H Oct. 21:3/1 - John and Aaron Long and Granville Young have been 
sentenced to be hung on the 29th of this month for the murder and robbery 



78

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 445 - 450 

CRLME &amp; CRIMLNALS (Cont'd) 

of Col. Davenport in his own house on the 4th of July last. (verbatim) (1) 

445 - H Nov. 3; ed:3/l - Murder in Boston. - Mrs. Bickford, a prostitute, 
had her throat cut by one of her visitors named Tirrell. The murderer 
set fire to the room, made his escape, and had not been caught at the 
last account. The long and minute notices of the murder in the Eastern 
journals pay but a poor compliment to the taste of readers. (verbatim) (1) 

446 - H Nov. 21; adv:3/2 - I have made another haul of stolen goods for 
which I want to find the owners. Erastus Smith, constable. (verbatim) (1) 


447 - H Nov. 25; ed:2/l - Trial of Polly Bodine. The criminal court of 
New York has been for several days trying to obtain a jury for the trial 
of Mrs. Bodine, charged with murder. Some 3,200 extra jurors have been 
summoned in her case, and at the latest accounts but nine jurors had been 
obtained. The court, in despair of filling the panel, would probably change 
the venue. Expense of case to the city $225 per day. The sheriff has fine 
picking, the fee for summoning each talesman being 25 cents. (verbatim) 

(1) 

448 - H Dec. 6:2/2 - Coroner Camp was called upon the evening of the 
fourth instant to hold an inquest on the body of a female infant, sup- 
posed to be but a few days old, found on the beach of the lake east of 
Johnson's run. Verdict of the jury was that the child came to its death 
by being frozen, supposed to be (sic) thrown out upon the beach soon 
after birth. Physicians have examined said child and decided it was 
perfectly healthy, and they have no doubt it was frozen to death, 
(verbatim) (2) 

449 - H Dec. 13; ed:3/l - A bill has been introduced into the legisla- 
ture making the second offense of petit larceny a penitentiary crime. 
This bill, if passed, will be an important amendment to the criminal 
laws of this state. 

"So far as Cuyahoga county is concerned this amendment is of great 
moment." (4) 

450 - H Dec. 18:3/2 - Stolen Goods. - Officer Smith has made a fresh 

haul for which he desires owners. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Capital Punishment; Commutations &amp; Pardons; Courts; Forgeries; Penal &amp; Corrective Institutions 

CURRENCY. See Money 



79

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 451 ■ 456 

PLACEHOLDER

DAMAGE SUITS 

451 - H Feb. 20:3/3 - In the court of common pleas Judge Bissell, the fol- 
lowing case was on trial yesterday: Wheeler Bartram versus Charles D. 
Brayton. Th''s was an action in the case for mal-practice in the treat- 
ment of a felon on the plaintiff's hand. The examination of witnesses 
was not finished till dark, and the case was put over till the next day. 

(2) 

452 - H Feb. 22:3/4 - In the court of common pleas Judge Bissell, the 
following cases were dispos d of today: David Throup versus S. Stewart, 
replevin suit brought for 50 cords of wood, decision rendered in favor 

of plaintiff. 

F. W. Bingham, administrator, versus M, Sherman, action in assumpsit on 
a promissory note. Defense claimed an agreement whereby the amount due 
on the note was to be paid in grind-stones. Judgment rendered for the 
defendant. 

Weiss versus Bostwick, ■ replevin - motion to quash the writ on the 
ground of insufficiency in the affidavit. It appeared that the name 
of the defendant was substituted for that of the plaintiff in the body 
of the affidavit. Motion granted, and the writ quashed at the costs of 
the clerk. (7) 

453 - H Mar. 1:3/2 - Judge Bissell ruled in favor of S. Skidmore, the 
defendant, in common pleas court on Feb. 28 in a case in which William 
Bugg sued to collect on two promissory notes in the amounts of $55.45 and 
$84.81. The defense was a failure of consideration. (7) 

454 - H Mar. 3:3/3 • In the court of common pleas Judge Bissell, the 
following case was disposed of, Mar. 1: Firemen's Insurance company 
versus Bank of Cleveland. - It appeared that on the 12th of Feb. 1842, 
the plaintiff had $2,613.41 on deposit with the bank, and about this 
time the bank failed. The plaintiff was notified to call and receive 
the amount of its deposit. The plaintiff took a draft on Thurbur, Avery 
and company, Rochester, for the deposit amount. The company failed, 
and the draft was protested for non-payment, and the plaintiff made an 
arrangement with Thurbur, Avery and company, whereby it received $1,820.80 
in compound for the draft. 

Verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $1,117.97. (6) 

455 - H July 1; ed:3/l - Miss Louisa Fenzell recently recovered of John 
Aughinbaugh, $1,850 for breach of marriage promise, at the Marion county 
common pleas court. 

"Verdicts in such cases remind one of diamond cement for broken china - 
better buy a new article." (1) 

456 - H July 3; adv:4/5 - All persons interested will take notice that 
Truman P. Handy on the 29th day of May, A. D. 1845, sued out a writ of 
attachment from the court of common pleas of Cuyahoga county in the state 
of Ohio, against Levi Bliss for the sum of $2,208.40, which writ has been 
served and returned. Attest: F. Whittlesey, clerk com. pleas. H. Foot, 
pl'ffs att'y. (verbatim) (1) 



80

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 457 - 4.0 

PLACEHOLDER

DANCING 

457 - H July 8:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Katrina" says: "The good 
taste which in a lady or gentleman is seen in the arrangement of dress, is 
by the silent looker on at an evening party or ball, observed frequently to 
disappear when a selection is made of a comnagnon de promenade. Harmony 
would certainly be conceded as invisible in a drawing room furnished with 
gilded drapery hangings, stiff high backed chairs, after the style of the 
16th century interspersed with the low luxurious lounge of more recent date; 
and surely good taste forbids the association of a Lilliputian gentleman and 
an Amazonian lady. 

"It may be amusing, but as the tall lady and the little gentleman can- 
not easily adapt the length of their respective paces to each other, is 
not violence done to harmony detrimental to the beauty of the scene, 
whether in the graceful meetings of a 'social, ' or a more public crowded 
pave!" (3) 

458 - H Nov. 19; adv:2/6 - Dancing Academy. Messrs. Leland and Ballou 
would inform the citizens of Cleveland that they will open an Academy 
for dancing, at the American House, to commence Dec. 1, 1845. They will 
teach the most fashionable dances, viz: Waltzes, Waltz Quadrilles, 
Gallopades, Spanish Quadrilles, and so forth. 

Terms - $6 for a Gentleman and a Lady, $3 for 12 lessons. Juvenile 
classes meet afternoons. (2) 

DEAFNESS 

459 - H Feb. 15; ed:3/l,2 - The deaf and dumb asylum is the oldest in- 
stitution of the state, and has enjoyed uninterrupted prosperity during 
the 18 years of its existence. The number of pupils is increasing yearly. 
Unless additions are made to the buildings, a part of future applicants 
must be rejected. 

In addition to a thorough education, male pupils are taught a mechanical 
traie, and females are instructed in sewing, knitting, drawing, and in some 
of the lighter labors of the family. Attempts to teach mutes to articulate 
have proved signal failures, and the American system of instruction by signs 
has proved as signally useful. Hubbell is the present superintendent. 

Ten or 12 years ago, a bill passed the U. S. Senate, granting a township 
of land to the New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio institutions for the deaf and 
dumb, the only ones then in existence that had not been endowed by the gen- 
eral government. The bill was not acted on in the house for want of time, 
and since then the subject has been suffered to rest. 

"Another effort should be made and now is a favorable opportunity to 
secure aid from the General Government. The Western Deaf and Dumb have 
strong claims, for while the General Government sets apart school sections 
for the education of speaking children, no provision is made for a class 
of the Providence-stricken who have high and holy claims on public and 
private charity." (16) 

460 - H Aug. 21; ed;3/l - We trust our citizens will repair to the Second 
Presbyterian church this evening to hear H. N. Hubbell, principal of the 



81

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 461 ■ 465 

DEAFNESS (Cont'd) 

Ohio Deaf and Dumb asylum and see an exhibition of the wonderful language 

of signs by his accomplished pupils. 

'Mr. Hubbell is the good foster-father of this Institution, whose life 
and whole energies are devoted to the benefit of the afflicted in our 
midst, and his name will ever be held in grateful remembrance by the 
hundreds of mutes to whom he has opened up a new existence of beauty and 
usefulness, where erst all was black, dark and cheerless." (4) 

DEATHS 

461 - n Jan. 15:2/4 - Died in Dover, on the 9th inst., of Consumption, 
Mrs. Lucy E., wife of Mr. Josiah Hurst and daughter of the late Nathan 
Bassett, formerly of Dover, aged 28 years. 

She died in the fullest hopes of a blessed immortality. 
Thou art gone to the grave but we will not deplore thee, ■ 
Since Christ was the ransom, thy guardian, thy guide. 
He gave thee, he took thee, and soon will restore thee. 
For death has no sting since the Saviour has died. (verbatim) (1) 

462 • H Jan. 15:2/4 - Died at Newburgh, on the 6th inst.. Dr. Horace 
Filley, aged 35 years. His scientific medical attainments and success 
in practice during the last 15 years, has endeared his memory to a large 
circle of friends. His loss will be much lamented. 

Editors of New Haven and Pittsburgh papers please copy the above, 
(verbatim) (1) 

463 - H Apr. 7:2/4 - Died, on Sunday, the 6th inst., Charles, son of Mr. ' 
J. S. Phillips. 

Herein we have a melancholy instance of the uncertainty of life, as 
the youth, here spoken of left his fathers house in the enjoyment of 
health, and in less than an hour was brought back a corpse, having fallen 
in a fit, (as supposed) in a small mud puddle and was smothered. 

The funeral will take place from Mr. Phillip's residence, near the 
Pittsburgh House, to-morrow, at 2-1/2 o'clock, P. M. 

The frienJs and schoolmates are invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

464 ■ H Apr. 18:2/4 - Died at the residence of her father Col. Geo. A. 
Bayard, on the afternoon of the 14th, Mtrgarett'i Baden, wife of James 
A. Briggs, of Cleveland, Ohio. 

Sad it is that the lovely and the good are so often the early called by 
Death. This community sympathizes deeply with our absent and afflicted 
friend, whose loss is indeed irreparable. (3) 

465 • H Apr. 30:2/4 - Died, on Tues lay the 22nd inst., at his father's 
residence in Orange, Mr. Hiram T. Gates, 23 years of age. His neighbors 
and friends will long miss his kindness and sympathy, and the community 

has lost in him a public spirited and valuable member. (3) 



82

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 466 - 474 

DEATHS (Cont'd) 

466 - H May 17:2/4 - Died, in Chicago, on the 8th inst., Mr. Charles 

W. Cook, aged 46 years, formerly of the Temperance House, in this city. 

(verbatim) (1) 

467 - H June 16; ed:3/l - General Andrew Jackson, ex-president of the 
United States, died at the Hermitage, near Nashville at six p.m. on the 
evening of June 8. Jackson who was 78, has been in feeble health for a 
long time. 

"Thus has closed the eventful life of one of the most extraordinary ■ . 

and distinguished men of the age; and his death, though not unexpected, 
will create a profound sensation throughout the country. The Republic 
will never produce another Andrew Jackson." (4) 

468 - H July 5:2/4 - Died, in Ohio City, on the 4th inst., after a short 
illness, Margaret, wife of Mr. David Morrison. Ship Chandler, late of 
Iverness, Scotland, aged 35 years. She died in the peace and faith of 
the Gospel, leaving a large family and an extensive circle of friends 

to mourn her loss. 

Her funeral will be attended to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock, from 
Mr. Morrison's residence. (verbatim) (1) 

469 - H July 10:2/4 - James B. Finney, 28, died in this city on June 25. 
He was born in Vermont in 1817 and moved here in his infancy. He occupied 
public offices and positions of trust ever since attaining his majority. 
Finney ruptured a heart vessel in 1840, but survived until late last month. 
He leaves a wife and two children. (9) 

470 - H July 14:2/4 ■ Died in Orange, Cuyahoga Co., Ohio, on the 13th 
inst, of palsey. Mr. James Gates, aged 70 years. 

The deceased was for many years a resident of Onondaga Co., N. Y. 
Syracuse paper will please notice. (verbatim) (1) 

471 - H July 17:2/3 - Mrs. Philena Gaylord, wife of Capt. Allen Gaylord, 
of Newburgh, Cuyahoga county, died July 10, at the age of 64. She was 
the daughter of Elijah Gunn, Esq., who settled in the Western Reserve 

50 years ago. (2) 

472 - H July 17:2/3 - Died, in Willoughby, on the 6th inst., after a 
protracted illness patiently borne, Orrin Blossom, aged 48 years and 

3 months. "The righteous hath hope in his death." (verbatim) (1) 

473 - H July 17:2/3 - Thomas Clark, 30, died in Newburgh, Cuyahoga county. 
Clark came to Cleveland from the Isle of Man, in 1835. (1) 

474 - H July 22:2/4 - Died in East Cleveland, on the 16th inst., Miss 
Cynthia L. Cozad, eldest daughter of Elias Cozad in the 31st year of her 
age. Her disease was a lingering consumption, of the most painful char- 
acter, whi.'h she bore with surpassing fortitude, and died rejoicing in 

the prospect of a glorious immortality. (verbatim) (1) 



83

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 475 - 480 

DEATHS (Cont'd) 

475 • H Aug. 7:2/4 - Died in this city, on the 6th inst., in full tri- 
umphs of the Christian Faith, James, eldest son of John Jones, aged 17 
years, formerly of Jefferson co., N.Y. "And if fsic) go and prepare a 
place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself; that where 
I am, there ye may be also." 

Funeral to-raorrow morning at 10 o'clock, from the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. The members of that church are particularly invited to attend, 
(verbatim) (1) 

476 - H Sept. 17:2/4 - Died, at Flint, Mich., on the 27th of August, Mr. 
Nathaniel Andrews, aged 84, a soldier of the Revolution and a Pensioner. 
The venerable and respected Soldier and Christian resided in this city 
for the last 12 years, and removed to Michigan the past summer, where an 
intermittent fever chised his long and useful life, He was born in 

Berlin, Conn. (verbatim) (1) 

477 • H Sept. 30; ed:2/4 - Mortuary Chambers - In order to guard against 
premature interments there is attached to most of the cemeteries in Germnny 
a hall where the dead remain some time before being committed to the 
ground. In this hall the body, neatly attired, is laid upon a couch - • 
before the lips is placed a mirror which the slightest breath would cloud, 
and between the fingers a string which on the slightest movement, causes a 
bell in the department of the keeper to ring. This hall is visited hourly, 
night and day, by v'gilant inspectors, and it is stated that not a year 
passes that the bell is not rung by one of the supposed corpses. 

Similnr precautions should be adopted in every burial place in America. 
Indisputable facts conclusively indicate their necessity. (verbatim) (2) 

478 - H Oct. 16:2/4 - Died, on the 16th inst., Mr. Wm. Powell in the 
36th year of his age. 

The friends of the deceased are requested to attend his funeral from 
his late residence on Champlain st., to-morrow, at 3 o'clock. P. M. 
(verbatim) (1) 

479 - H Oct. 16:2/4 - Died also on the same day Miss Mary Powell, daughter 
of John Powell, in the 22d year of her age. 

The friends of the deceased are requested to attend her funeral from 
the residence of her father on Pittsburgh st., to-morrow, at 11 o'clock, 
A. M. (verbatim) (I) 

480 - H Oct. 31:3/1 - One of the early pioneers of Cleveland was called 
to-day to the realm of quiet rest he had so long taken a part in peopling, 
in his capacity as city sexton. He was Abraham Ilickox, 81, who moved 
here in 1809 from Connecticut. He acted as sexton until a year or two 
ago. He was a good mechanic, and the people will miss his sign, which 
could be seen on the brow of Superior hill - "Uncle Abram Works Here." 

(4) 



84

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 481 - 487 

DEATHS (Cont'd) 

481 - H Dec. 30:2/4 - Died in Brooklyn of the Typhus Fever, on Thursday 
the 25th inst. Eveline Melissa, youngest daughter of John Boyden, in her 
seventeenth year. 

It is a consolation to her friends to believe, that she died in the Lord, 
and now sleeps in Him. 

Connecticut and Vermont papers please copy. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Accidents &amp; Disasters , ^ 

DENTISTRY &amp; DENTISTS 

482 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/7 - W. Bailey. Dentist, having returned to Cleve- 
land, would give notice that he is refitting his former rooms on Superior 
St., opposite the Temperance House, where in a few days he will be pre- 
pared to attend to all calls in the line of his profession. (verbatim) 

(1) 

483 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - Dr. B. Strickland, Surgeon Dentist, and manu- 
facturer of Incorruptible Teeth, Nu. 107 Superior street, between Seneca 
street and the public square. (1) 

484 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - Dr. Wright, Dentist, No. 76 Superior street, 
opposite the Commercial Bull iirgs. (1) 

485 - H Oct. 13; adv:2/4 - W. Bailey, Surgical and Mechanical Dentist, 
Attends to all operations connected with his profession, at 155 Superior- 
st. Double sets of teeth inserted by C&gt; lender detachments; all 'mitation 
consequent upon the spring's friction against the muscles in their vicinity 
heretofore a source of trouble, is by this method entirely obviated, and 

the teeth are made more durable and less complicated. (2) 

486 - H Nov. 12; adv:2/4 - Dental Surgery. Drs. Wright and Hamlen. Sur- 
gical and Mechanical Dentists, have formed a partnership, and will perform 
all useful operations in the best manner, and on reasonable terms. 

Surgeon's and Dentist's Instruments for sale unusually cheap. Office, 
No. 94 Superior st. (2) 

DIPLOMATIC SERVICE. See Foreign Relations - Diplomatic Service 

DISEASES 

487 - H Aug. 5:3/2 - In :i letter to the editor, "Kinsman Street" says: 
There are at this time in our neighborhood several severe cases of small 
pox, and one death is reported as having taken piece yesterday. Our city 
authorities are fully advised of this state of things, and seem to regard 
it as no part of their duty to look after the health of the city, or take 
any action in the matter. 

"Will you, my dear sir, urge our city authorities to act in this matter, 
and do what can be done at this late hour to save from suffering and death 
the residents in the vicinity of Kinsman Street?" (3) 



85

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 488 - 493 

DISEASES (Cont'd) 

488 - H Aug. 8:3/2 - At a meeting of the council today, Bingham intro- 
duced an ordinance for the establishment of a board of health, this to 
cope with the small pox attack on Kinsman st. The ordinance was passed 
and the following appointed to the board: Messrs. Call, Hughes, and 

Wood. No other business was transacted. (2) 

489 - H Aug. 11:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "One Who Has Been Ex- 
posed" says: A man afflicted with the dread small pox escaped from 
the pest house and perambulated the streets for several hours, exposing 
all citizens to the peril of contracting this horrible disease. "The 
escape of this individual from the Pest House is admitted by all to be a 
gross dereliction of duty in those having charge of it and the citizens 
should hold some one responsible, as will "One Who Has Been Exposed." 

(3) 

490 - H Aug. 11:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "S" says: The opinion 
which existed a few years back that vaccination of the young protected 
them from any future small pox infection has exploded. It is now con- 
ceded that bodily changes (which occur every seven years or so) require 
frequent vaccination for complete protection. 

"In a town like ours, where emigrants are constantly arriving, it is 
impossible to be freed from this most loathsome disease for any length 
of time; and as the effect upon the surrounding country is bad for the 
trade of the place, if for no other reason it behooves every citizen to 
use his individual influence, not only now but at any future period, to 
have effective laws passed for the prevention and treatment of ill in- 
fective or contagious diseases that may be brought among us." (4) 

491 - H Aug. 16:3/1 - The newly-formed board of health composed of Messrs. 
J. Delamater, H. A. Ackley, and A. Hughes announce to the public that small 
pox is not present here in any alarming degree. A house in upper Kinsman 
St., and also a house near Colahan's point are the only places in the city 
where the disease is known to exist. There are now only eight cases of 
small pox in Cleveland, and they are so confined as to prevent contagion. 
Vaccination will, it is hoped, entirely prevent its further spread. (3) 

492 - H Aug. 18:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "S" says: Noticing the 
late report of our board of health allaying our fear of small pox, the ' 
writer visited the Kinsman st., district where cases of the disease are 
reported, and found the loathsome malady spreading. There were no signs 

to warn passers-by of the proximity of contagion, and children of the 
plagued families were allowed to mingle with their neighbors. 

"What has become of the Pest House we were promised last week?" (3) 

493 - II Aug. 19:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, Horatio Ranney, one of 
the township trustees, says: Rumors have been insidiously put into cir- 
culation, which, if allowed to pass may tend to my injury as a public 
officer. These charges are in the main: That I removed a man sick with ' 
small pox into the first ward and thus spread the disease there, and that 

as a consequence, I caused the destruction of the pest bouse. The truth 



86

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 494 - 499 

DISEASES (Cont'd) 

is, the diseased man referred to never set foot in the first ward but was 
cared for by F. A. Kepler and left the city by way of the canal. "This 
is the only case baaring towards the charge in circulation, and the pub- 
lic can see what degree of censure ought to be attached to me either as 
a township officer or as a citizen." (7) 

494 - H Aug. 30; ed:3/l - Small Pox. - Large stories are in circulation 
in some of the papers relative to the extent of the small pox in this city. 
The disease is not spreading - and there is no alarm or excitement here 
about it. Vaccination has checked its progress. (verbatim) (1) 

DIVORCE &amp; ALIMONY 

495 • II Apr. 4:2/4 - David Anderson is hereby notified that Charlotte 
Anderson his wife, on the 19th day of March, 1845, filed in the court of 
common pleas of Cuyahoga County, in the state of Ohio, her petition pray- 
ing to be divorced from said David on account of his willful absence for 
more than three years. F. W. Bingham, Att'y for Petitioner. (1) 

496 - H July 1:2/5 - Minerva Huntington has filed suit for divorce in the 
supreme court of Ohio within the county of Cuyahoga from Henry Huntington, 
the cause being willful absence for more than three years. (1) 

497 - H Aug. 15; adv:2/4 - Lydia Chamberlin versus David Chamberlin. 
Petition for Divorce. The deft David Chamberlin will take notice that 
on the 15th inst., the petitioner filed in the Court of Common Pleas of 
Cuyahoga county her petition for divorce, setting forth her marriage with 
said deft and that he has since said marriage grossly neglected his duty 
towards petitioner - that the offspring of said marriage is a daughter aged 
three years and about 3 months. - The petitioner prays that said marriage 
contract may be dissolved, that she may have custody of said child, 

and for general relief. Said petition will be for hearing at the next 
term of the said Court. Nancy Chamberlin. Bishop &amp; Backus, her sol'rs. 

(2) 

498 - H Sept. 1:2/4 - The deft Salim Welton will take notice that the 
said Clancy Welton has this day filed in common pleas court, Cuyahoga 
county his petition for Divorce, setting forth his marriage with said 
deft, that said marriage was procured by fraud, that since said marriage 
said deft has been guilty of gross neglect of duty. For which causes 
the Petitioner prays to be divorced from deft, and for general relief. 
Bishop &amp; Backus, Atty's for Pef r. (I) 

499 - H Sept. 3:2/5 - Laura Denick today filed a petition for divorce from 
Valentine Denick, in common pleas court here. Mrs. Denick charges that 
Valentine committed adultery with a Sarah Peck at Fairport, on or about 
June 23 of this year, and that he has absconded with the said Sarah Peck. 
Mrs. Denick asks for a divorce, alimony, and for the custody of her 
children. (2) 



87

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 500 - 505 

DIVORCE &amp; ALIMONY (Cont'd) 

500 - H Dec. 20:2/4 - Emma Shore through her attorneys, Bishop and 
Backus, has sued in common pleas court here for a divorce from John 
Shore, charging gross neglect of duty. She prays for divorce, and for 

the custody of an infant child. (1) 

DOCKS &amp; PIERS. See Streets - Improvements 

DOGS 

501 - H July IT; ed:3/I - Detroit city authorities have begun a war against 
mad dogs and even mad cows in that locality, following several attacks by 
the animals on pedestrians. 

"The city authorities have commenced the dog war in earnest." (1) 

502 - H Dec. 2:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Utility" says: Permit 
me to suggest the propriety of applying to our legislature for the enact- 
ment of a law for taxintr dogs. What is more annoying than to have a 
worthless cur bite at the heels of your horse, with the possibility of 
frightening him into running a-^ay and injuring some person. Then, too, 
look at the damage done among sheep flucks by wandering dogs. 

This is a crying evil, and one which should be suppressed. A registry 
tax of $2 the first year, and $1 yearly thereafter would rid the country 
of worthless dogs. "I thi ik every person owning a good dog would be per- 
fectly willing to pay this tax." (7) 

H Dec. 8:3/2 - See Agriculture 

DOMESTIC RELATIONS, See Families &amp; Family Life; Marriage &amp; Marriages 

DRESSMAKING 

503 - H July 1; adv:l/7 - Dress Making. Miss Harper and Mrs. Bates, 
would respectfully inform the Ladies of Cleveland and vicinity, that they 
have taken Rooms at No. 121 Superior St., One door west of Dr. Strick- 
land's, where they will be pleased to wait on all who will favor them with 
a call. (verbatim) (1) 

DROUGHTS 

504 - H May 13; ed:2/l - The drouth still continues in this quarter with 
unexampled severity for the spring season - indeed the earth has not been 
thoroughly saturated with rain for some eight months past. Streams, 
springs, and wells are low and grass, grain, and vegetation generally 
suffer very much for want of moisture. 

"The prospects of our agricultural friends have not been so unpromis- 
ing for years at mid-May." (3) 

505 - H June 26; ed:3/l • "For weeks past all signs of rains in this 
quarter have again failed, and the drouth is very severe. Grass and 
vegetation in the city and vicinity suffer for want of rain exceedingly." 

(2) 



88

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 506-513 

DROUGHTS (Cont'd) 

506 - H July 19; ed:3/l - Drouth - Drouth - All signs of rain continue 
to fail in this locality, and we have not been blessed with a single old 
fashioned thunder shower for almost a twelve-month. The signs this morn- 
ing looked very promising, and a few drops, precious as gold dust, were 
scattered, but the burning sun soon shone out as usual. (verbatim) (1) 

507 - H Aug. 19:3/1 - While we have been favored with abundantlv refresh- 
ing showers, our city readers may be surprised to read that our Reserve 
friends are parched with drouth. At Oberlin, drouth and grasshoppers 
have destroyed green vegetation. In Summit and Portage counties the 
picture is no mce pleasing. Such is the scarcity of fodder that dairy 
farmers are selling best stock at five and six dollars per head. (4) 

508 - H Dec. 19; ed:2/2 - Winter, says the Milwaukee SENTINEL, should 
not set in until the springs and wells are all full, but this year "Jack 
Frost" seems to have refused to wait. As a result wells are going dry 
and the country is beginning to suffer. 

"The 'drouth' appears to be pretty general in the Lake regions.... 
Many springs and wells are dry, and the farmers in numerous instances 
suffer inconvenience in obtaining water for stock." (2) 

DRUGS & DRUGGISTS 

509 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/3 - That Dread Disease, Consumption, is speedily 
and effectually cured, by the use of the Great English Remedy Buchan's 
Hungarian Balsam of Life. This is no quack nostrum, but a Standard 
English Medicine, of known and established efficacy. See pamphlets to 

be had gratis of H. &amp; E. Gaylord, Agents for Cleveland. (1) 

510 • H Jan. 3; adv:4/2 - Caledonia Water, From Canada, Just received 
and for sale at Cleveland. The effect of these waters are a gentle pur- 
gative. They produce great appetite and buoyancy of spirits. Orders 
promptly filled on receipt by Wm. R. Eckert, General Agent for the 
Western States. (2) 

511 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 - By Express - 50 oz. Sulphate Quinine, just 

rec'd and for sale by C. S. Mackenzie &amp; Co., Phoenix Buildings. (1) 

512 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/4 - Moat's Morison Pills. The Genuine Vegetable 
Universal Medicines. The weak, the feeble, the infirm, the nervous, the 
delicate, are in a few days strengthened by their operation, and the 
worst complaints are removed by perseverence. Without the expense of a 
physician. (4) 

513 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/7 - The time Has Come - When Consumption can be 
classed with the Curable Diseases. 

Among all the famous medicines for Consumption none seems to be 
meeting with greater success, or gaining a higher reputation than that 
most wonderful article. 

Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry that not only relieves but cures! 



89

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 514 - 522 

DRUGS &amp; DRUGGISTS (Cont'd)

Price $1 per bottle, or six bottles for $5. (15) 

514 - H Jan. 29; adv:2/4 - The whole world should know, that Dr. Jayne's 
Expectorant is a certain cure for Asthma, Coughs, Colds, Consumption, •■ 
Whooping Cough, Croup, Bronchitis, and every other diseases of the Lungs 
and Throat. Made in Philadelphia. On sale at Handerson &amp; Punderson, 
Cleveland. Ohio. (2) 

515 - H Apr. 26; adv:2/l - Ague &amp; Fever. Let it Be Borne In Mind by 
those who are afflicted with Ague and Fever, that there is no medicine 
more certain in its effects than Mackenzie's Tonic Febrifuge for the cure •■ 
of Ague and Fever; - it regulates the action of the liver and secretions- 
strengthens and gives tone to the system, and effectually rids the dis- 
ease from the system. For sale only by Mackenzie &amp; Haskell. Sign of 

the Arch, Phoenix Buildings. (1) 

516 ■ H July 1; adv: 1/6 - Epsom Salts - 3 bbls. Baltimore Epsom Salts, 

for sale by Handerson &amp; Punderson. • (1) 

517 - H July 1; adv: 3/4 - F. W. Weiss, No. 28 on the dock, at Cleveland, 
sole agent for the sale of Home Medicine from Leipzig, offers the follow- 
ing for sale at New York retail prices: Pocket books with 27 remedies, 
with family guide; Everest, ON HOMEOPATHY. Herring's DOMESTIC PHYSIC; 
Wood's DEFENCE OF HOMEOPATHY; Hempel's, THESIS, and other volumes. 

(2) 

518 - H July 1; adv:2/5 - Chemicals. - Hydrodate of Potash - Proto. 
Idoide of Mercury - Veratrine - Tannin - citrate of Iron: - Sulph. Morphine; 
Sulph. Quinine; - just opened at Clarke &amp; Fiske's, No. 11 Superior st. (1) 

519 • H July 1; adv: 1/7 - Drugs &amp; Medicines. Mackenzie &amp; Haskell's, 
Phoenix Buildings, sign of the "Arch" are now receiving their Spring • ' 
stock of Drugs, Medicines, Chemicals, &amp;c. &amp;c., comprising one of the 
largest and best selected assortments ever offered in this market. 

Country mercliants, physicians, pedlars, and the Public are requested 
to call and examine. (2) 

DRY GOODS 

520 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/6 - Plaids - A nice article for Ladies' Cloaks are " 
selling off very low at H. W. Alden &amp; Co.'s, No. 3 Bank St. - (1) 

521 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - James H. Keller, Dealer in Staple and Fancy 

Dry Goods, No. 48, Kellogg's Block, Superior street. (1) 

522 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/5 - Woolen Goods - 200 ps. Blk., Blue Black, Green, 
Olive, Cadet, and Blk. Mixed Blue Cloths; Plain and Fancy Cassimers; 
Satinetts; Sheep's Grey Cloths; Moleskin; Plaid, Woolen and Worsted Goods; 
Kentucky Jeans; Sac Coating, etc. 

Also, Good Dark Vestings, Silk Velvets, Satin, Cashmere, etc., now 
opened and for sale at 48. J. H. Kelley. (1)



90

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 523 - 533 

DRY GOODS (Cont'd) 

523 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/7 - Dry Goods at Wholesale, W. Warren &amp; Co., No. 5 
Franklin Building, Water st. Cleveland, Ohio, have now rec'd a complete 
assortment of Dry Goods, and respectfully invite Country Merchants to 

call and examine their stock. (1) 

524 • H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Dry Goods Dealers. Webster &amp; Co., Wholesale and 
Retail Dealers in Dry Goods, Boots, Shoes and Paper Hangings, No. 3 City 
Buildings, Superior st. (1) 

525 - H Jan. 3; adv: 4/1 - Fancy Goods - Rich Camel ion and Damask Silk 
Shawls. Rich plaid Dress Silk, Linen Chusans, Balzarines, Challies, 
Silk Warp Alpaccn. Rich Prints &amp;c, Williams &amp; Corning, No. 3 Franklin 
Building, Water st. (1) 

526 - H Jan. 3; adv: 3/6 - Cashmere Prints. - A few pieces entirely new 
patterns and very rich, just rec'd at Sacket's. (1) 

527 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Raymond &amp; Clark, Dealers in Staple and Fancy 
Dry Goods, No. 63 Superior street. (1) 

528 - H Jan. 3; adv: 3/5 - New Arrival. New Goods, at 59 Superior st. 
A large assortment Prints, new Styles. 

These goods were recently bought at prices much reduced, and will be 
sold low at E. P. Morgan &amp; Co.'s. (2) 

529 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - W. W. Leland, No. 12 Superior st. Wholesale 

and Retail dealer in Staple and Fancy Dry Goods. (1) 

530 - H Jan. 23; adv: 2/4 - Another Express Arrival "Through in 6 Days." 
500 Dozen Black and Blue Black Gimp Cords. Fine Cashmere Goods, Fringes, 
Fancy Silks (spring styles) Brocha Shawls, Irish Linens, Hat Ribbons, 
Gloves, Hosiery, French Work Collars, (new styles.) 

Besides a very large stock of Staple Goods always on hand, at 48 
Jas. H. Kelley. (verbatim) (1) 

531 - H Mar. 26:2/4 - The firm of B. L. Spangler &amp; Co., was this day 
dissolved by mutual consent. Those having claims against said concern 
will please hand them in for settlement. Those indebted are expected 

to make immediate payment. B. L. Spangler, P. M. Weddell, D. Baldwin, 
(verbatim) (1) 

532 - H Apr. 16; adv:2/4 - "Empire Store" No. 5, Mercantile Exchange 
Buildings. John Clifton, Dealer in Staple and Fancy Dry Goods, Bonnet 

&amp; Ladies Shoes. A great variety of fancy articles. (3) 

533 - H Apr. 19:3/1 - Friend Kelley has removed into Mr. Crittenden's 
spacious Empire Block, and has a large, light, and showy store, well ^ 
fitted up and filled with a fresh stock of everything desirable in the 

Dry Goods line. (verbatim) (1) 



91

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 534 - 541 

DRY GOODS (Cont'd) - ' . • ,. 

534 - H Apr. 22; adv:2/4 • New Store and New Goods. M. Johnson, Will 
open about the 26th inst., an entire new stock of seasonable Dry Goods, 

at No. 82, Empire Building, opposite the old Commercial Bank. His stock 

being entirely new and having been purchased at the very reduced prices 

of this spring he will be enabled to offer desirable bargains. (1) 

535 - H Mar. 12; adv:2/4 - Baldwin &amp; Spangler, are now opening their stock 
of Goods in the Franklin Buildings, Corner of Superior and Water streets, 
Where they will offer Goods at prices to ensure them business, and where 
they will be happy to see all their old friends. (1) 

536 - H May 20; adv:2/6,7 - H. M. Hou'^es, 61 Superior st., dry goods em- 
porium. 500 Ps. Ladies dress goods French, English and American prints. 
A large and splendid assortment of shawls, from $4 to $35. A large 
assortment of pedlar's goods, from auction. 

The stock will be replenished every few days during the season, having 
a purchaser constantly in the market. Just stop in at House's before 
making your purchase, where bargains are afloat. (16) 

537 - H June 3; adv:2/4 - "Hurrah for Jackson." New Store &amp; New Goods. 
June 3, 1845. The undersigned is now opening a choice selection of 
Spring and Summer Dress Goods together with a general assortment of 
Fancy &amp; Staple Dry Goods, which will be offered at a very small advance 
from New York cost, for ready pay only. He would also add that his stock 
has been purchased within the 'ast twelve days, under favorable circum- 
stances, and since the great decline in prices east. - The public are in- 
vited to call and examine the same at No. 7, Franklin Buildings two doors 
east of Messrs. Baldwin &amp; Spangler's store. Morris Jackson. Remember 

No. 7. (2) 

538 - H July 1; adv:3/4 • Musquito Bar - White and col'd just the thing 

for comfort, at 104 Superior st. by P. M. Weddell &amp; Son. (1) 

539 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - C. C. Carlton &amp; Greene, Wholesale and Retail 
Dealers in Staple and Fancy Dry Goods and Groceries. No. 69 Superior 
street. (1) 

540 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - John Clifton, Dealer in Foreign and Domestic 
Dry Goods, Bonnets and Ladie's Shoes. "Empire Store." No. 5 Merchants' 
Exchange, Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

541 - H July 1; adv: 2/6 - Going! Going!! At Cutter's Auction Room may .^ 
be found a great variety of Dry Goods, Staple and fancy; Peddlar's Goods, 
which will be sold at wholesale and retail at private sale Mondays, 
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, at prices cheaper than can be had at any 
store in this city. Call and see. (1) 



92

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 542 - 551 

DRY GOODS (Cont'd) 

542 - H July 1; adv: 1/7 - M. Johnson, No. 82 Empire Buildings, Has this 
day rec'd his new Stock of Staple and Fancy Dry Goods, and respectfully 
solicits the patronage of all who want good bargains. He has beautiful 
Goods of all kinds for Ladies' Dresses, to which he calls their particular 
attention. (1) 

543 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - Bartlett &amp; Clark, wholesale and retail Dry 

Goods Merchants, No. 62 Merchant's Exchange. (1) 

544 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - 80 Inch Burlaps - Just the article for Wool 
Sacking, at E. P. Morgan &amp; Co's, (verbatim) (1) 

545 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - To The Citizens of Cleveland. I have got a 
splendid assortment of Household Linens, perhaps the best ever offered 
in this city. If you will please to call. I can give you bargains, 

one door west Brayton &amp; Co. Exchange office. J. E. Lake. (I) 

546 - H July 1; adv: 1/7 - Sacket's Cash Store. Alexander Sacket has just 
received $10,000 worth of India, French, English, and American goods, and 
is now prepared to exhibit to the good citizens of Cleveland, Ohio City, 
and surrounding country, one of the best assortments of Staple and Fancy 
Dry Goods. Acknowledging his ill-location he realizes that he must sell 
cheap to attract trade - and he means to do it - cost or no cost - profit 

or no profit. (2) 

547 - H Sept. 20; adv: 2/4 - I. B. Simmons. Fall and Winter Goods Stocks 
Received. Broad Cloths, Cassimeres, etc. (2) 

548 - H Sept. 26; adv: 2/5 - Hold on to your change: The War with Mexico 
has ended in Smoke! The services of our patriotic "Generals" are not 
likely to be required by the present emergency!- therefore, they will 
remain at home! 

Ttiis being the case I would respectfully inform the citizens of this 
community that A. A. Selover, is now receiving from New York and Boston 
a splendid assortment of Dry Goods, which will be offered at the lowest 
prices, at this store. No. 5 City Buildings. A. A. Selover, "By authority." 

(1) 

549 - H Oct. 1; adv: 2/5 - P. M. Weddell &amp; Son, have removed to No. 48, 
under the American, where they are now receiving their stock of Fall 
Goods, the styles, fabrics and prices of which cannot be beaten. 

Large addition of Goods are daily expected, all will be offered at em- 
phatically low prices. (2) 

550 - H Oct. 1; adv:2/5 - Silks, Silks - A few patterns of the richest 
silks ever offered in Ohio at W. &amp; S. Beckwith &amp; Co's. (1) 

551 - H Oct. 25; adv:2/4 - Dissolution. - The firm of Baldwin &amp; Spangler, 
is this day dissolved by mutual consent. H. L. Spangler will continue 

the business as usual. (1) 



93

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 552 - 557 

J)2Y GOODS (Cont'd)

552 - H Nov. 5; adv:2/5 - Look Here! New Fall and Winter Goods, No. 7 
Franklin Buildings. M. Jackson has just rec'd and is now opening his stock 
of Staple and Fancy Dry Goods. Please call and examine for yourselves. 

(2) 
DUELS &amp; DUELING 

553 - H Jan. 16; ed:3'l - The Baltimore PATRIOT of Jan. 11 says that an 
affair between Clingham and Yancey was settled without the duel which bad 
previously been agreed upon. 

"From what we can learn, a more wanton and uncalled for attack was 
never made upon any man in the Halls of Congress, than was that of Mr. 
Yancey upon Mr. Clingman; and according to the Southern code of honor, 
Mr. Clingman could not do less than issue a challenge, or lose his rep- 
utation as an honorable man. We are glad however, that the more sensi- 
ble views, which Northerners entertain upon this subject, gained pre- 
dominance over their minds ere proceeding to hostilities." (2) 

554 - H Jan. 18; ed:3/l - On Jan. 13, two congressmen, Clingham of North 
Carolina, and Yanrey of Alabama, engaged in a pistol duel near Baltimore. 
Neither was harmed. 

Another duel in which neither pirticipant was hurt was held on Jan. 6 
near Savannah, Ga., between Thomas Butler King, member elect to the next 
Congress, and James Spalding, the rival candidate. 

"Wonder if either of these Honorables could hit the size of a man 
chalked on a barn door with a hair trigger, the first fire, at ten paces? 
The South 'is a great country,' without Texas." (4) 

555 - H Jan. 28; ed:3/I - Another duel at Washington is talked of - Dr. 
Miller, 2d Assistant P. M. General, having, says rumor, been challenged by 
Col. Fisher, editor. Loco, of the Cleveland REPUBLICAN. N. Y. EXPRESS. 

"There will be bloodshed when the above mentioned duel comes off, and 
no mistake! Your 'Colonel Fisher, ' Mr. Express, is the veriest vagabond 
loafer ever kicked out of office and out of doors, and his 'Cleveland 
REPUBLICAN' could not levy 'Black mail' enough to give it half a dozen 
breaths. Fisher fight a duel! - His 'shots' are all in the neck!" 
(verbatim) (2) 

556 - H July 21; ed:2/l - This bold and determined advocate of emanci- 
pation, Cassius M. Clay is doing excellent service to the cause of 
universal freedom. We are pleased to notice that in a late letter to the 
New York TRIBUNE, Clay formally pledges himself never again to offer or 
accept a challenge, or in any manner to give dueling his countenance by 
support. 

"On this resolution Mr. C. shows himself the true hero, and we honor 
him for setting the example in a section of our country where a resort 
of the bloody code has so long and so universally been considered the 
most honorable mode of settling personal difficulties." (3) 

557 - H Nov. 28; ed:2/2 - Miles Grey has been sent to the penitentiary in 
Alabama for challenging a man to mortal combat. - Louisville JOURNAL. 



94

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 558 - 560 

DUELS &amp; DUELING (Cont'd) 

"Something new under the sun" truly. - What punishment is in reserve 
for the "chivalric Southrons" who have killed a man in mortal combat? 
Penitentiaries would not hold a tithe of them. (verbatim) (1) 



EDUCATION 

H Sept. 13; ed:2/l - See Slavery .. . . /-^ 

Commercial 

558 - H Nov. 7; adv:2/4 - E. G. Folsom &amp; Wni. P. Trimble's Academy for 
writing and book-keeping, will rommence on Monday, Nov. 10, in the 2d 
story of Miller's Block, over Kendall's store. 

Rooms will be open from 10 to 12 A.M., from 2 to 4 P.M., and from 
7 to 9 in the evening. Private lessons also given. (3) 

Normal Schools 

559 - H July 3:2/2 - A meeting of the students of the Western Reserve 
Teachers seminary took place at Kirtland, 0., on June 27, at which J. G. 
Coleman was presiding officer and J. C. Reeve, secretary. S. H. Bushnell, 
R. H. Osborn, and H. Benton presented resolutions expressing the feelings 
of the students upon the closing of this term. These resolutions pro- 
vided thanks to Principal Lord and to teachers Nichols and Dutton. They 
called also for the support of the community in behalf of the seminary, 
which has done so much to elevate the common schools of the vicinity. (5) 

560 - H July 9:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "Ubi" says: It was with 
pleasure that I perused the communications of "Franklin" published in 
y.)ur paper, as arti'~les tending to attract attention to our common schools. 
It would be surperfluous to go into an explanation of the importance of a 
good system of education in our district schools. Our common school sys- 
tem is far below what it should be, and one of the reasons is the apparent 
indifference to the qualifications of teachers, and a general absence of 
well qualified teachers. It appears to me that this evil would be les- 
sened and the character of our teachers increased, by the establishment 
and en^o-iragement of institutions expressly for the education of common 
school teachers. We have one such institution in northern Ohio. I 

refer to the Western Reserve Teachers seminary at Kirtland, Lake, co. 
However, a single institution, unaided and alone, cannot be expected to 
work a revolution throughout the state. The people of the state must 
petition the legislature for the establishment of similar institutions 
to the one mentioned. 

"It is observable that the interest is increasing upon the subject, and 
it is to be hoped another winter will give us laws elevating the charac- 
ter and extent of our system of education, which will in after years render 
unnecessary the passage of laws for the enlargement of our prisons and 
penitentiaries." (20) 

See also Colleges &amp; Universities; Schools &amp; Seminaries 



95

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 561 - 566

PLACEHOLDER

ELECTIONS, See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections 

EMPLOYMENT &amp; UNEMPLOYMENT 

H July 7; adv:2/5 - See Printing &amp; Publishing 

561 - II Aug. 22; adv:2/5 - Kingsbury &amp; Bingham, design to keep a general 
Intelligence Office, and to secure places for persons wishing to hire out, 
as servants or laborers. 

Office over G. Worthington's Hardware store, corner Superior and 
Water sts. (1) 

ENGRAVING &amp; LITHOGRAPHING 

562 - H Jan. 31; adv:2/4 • Engraving in all its Branches and Copper Plate 
Printing, executed by the subscribers in the best manner at low prices. 
Particular attention paid to Card Engraving and Printing, illustrations on 
wood for newspapers, etc., Lodge Seals, Door Plates, and all kinds of Sil- 
ver ware engraved at the subscribers. 17 Superior - st. Sanford &amp; Hayward. 

(2) 

ENTERTAINMENT 

563 - H Mar. 20; adv;2/4 - Last night. Grand Concert - The Cleveland 
Amateur Minstrels. Assisted by Mr. Pierce and C. N. Christy, celebrated 
Banjo and Bone Castinett Players, who have volunteered their services 
for this occasion, will, in connection with the Brass Band give a Grand 
Concert this evening, March 20, at Apollo Hall. 

Finale: - Miss Lucy Long in Character, by Master G. N. Christy. 
Concert to commence at 7 and 1/2 o'clock precisely. (4) 

564 - H Apr. 21; alv:2/4 - Grand Concert at the Apollo Hall on April 21 and 
22, by Christy's well known and Original BanJ of Minstrels. They will 
introduce a variety of entirely new songs, refrains, choruses, etc. Front 
seats reserved for ladies. Cards of admission 25 cts., to be had at Brain- 
ard's and American Hotel. (2) 

565 - H Apr. 22; ed:3/l - "Christy's Minstrels were greeted by a full 
house last evening and the inimitable performances kept 'laughter holding 
both his sides.' They 'touch the heel and toe' again this evening." (1) 

566 - H May 24; ed:2/I - Last evening was quite a carnival time in our 
city. The brass band gave a concert, the first of the season, on the 
Public Square. Bond added the attraction of a very pretty exhibition 

of fireworks; the new German military company marched and counter-marched 
to the war-breathing sounds of fife and drum; and the circus afforded 
mirth-moving entertainment to thousands. 

"The performance of the Band was exquisite, a trifle too much so it 
struck us to fill the open air auriculars of Mr. Public." (2) 



96

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 567 - 574 

ENTERTAINMENT (Cont'd) 

567 - H July 3; adv:2/4 - Christy's well known and original band of min- 
strels will appear at Apollo hall, July 3, 4, and 5, introducing new songs 
and choruses. A concert will be given for the juveniles, tomorrow at 
three in the afternoon. 

Cards of admittance, 25 cents, at Brainard's and at principal hotels. 
Front seats reserved for the ladies. (3) 

568 - H July 3:3/1 - "0! Whar did ye come from?" - Christy's famous band 
are in town again, and will give a series of their entertaining concerts, 
commencing with this evening. Their performances tomorrow afternoon will 
afford a fine opportunity to amuse the children. (verbatim) (1) 

569 - H July 19; adv:2/3 - Apollo Hall, An interesting exhibition, on Mon- 
day next, and for a few days following, our citizens will be presented 
with the Unique, Novel and diverting performances of the Infant Sisters 
who have so delighted our neighbors elsewhere; and also with performances 
of the Celebrated Scotch Piper, Wattie Fergurson, (late of the 42 High- 
landers, Britain) who will appear clad in true Scottish uniform, and play 
upon the Scotch and Irish Bagpipes. 

Particulars will be duly announced in Bills of the day. (verbatim) 

(2) 

570 - H July 22:3/1 - The Infant Sisters. - We were surprised and pleased 
by the performances of these little wonders of the world last evening, and 
we assure all who would while away an hour agreeably that they can do so 
by visiting the Apollo this and to-morrow evening. Mere children as are 
Emma and Eliza, they act, sing and dance with a winning grace that would 
do no discredit to "masters in the profession." The accomplished and arch 
little rogues are worth seeing, depend upon it. 

The Scotch Piper mikes the bagpipes talk "Ole Dan Tucker" with a dis- 
tinctness truly marvelous, and his "Scots! wha ha, wi' Wallace bled?" 
rouses reminiscences of the proudest days of Scottish chivalry. (verbatim) 

(2) 

571 - H July 24; adv:3/l - Last exhibition of the Infant Sisters at the 
Apollo this evening. (1) 

572 - H Sept. 23:3/1 - Laugh and Grow Fat. - Dr. Valentine, the Doctor 
who has given employment to a dozen Button factories by his irresistible 
titillation of the staid Yankees, is in town with his wonderful budget of 
fun and eccentricities, which he will open at the Empire Hall tomorrow 
evening. See advertisement. (1) 

573 - H Sept. 27; adv:2/4 - Empire Hall. By particular request of many 
who were unable to attend last evening Dr. Valentine will repeat his en- 
tertainment this evening. To commence at 7 1/2 o'clock. Tickets 25 cts. 

(1) 

574 - H Sept. 27:3/1 - Herr Alexander, the famous Magician, came down on 
the Empire and will give keen-sig!,ted Clevelanders a chance to detect his 



97

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 575 - 579 

ENTERTAINMENT (Cont'd) 

marvellous feats of necromancy at the Apollo on Monday evening - if they 
can. It is said he can beat the very Old Nick himself, and no wonder, 
for he has three tons of tricky apparatus more than cloven-footed com- 
petitor, (verbatim) (1) 

575 - H Sept. 27:3/1 - "Droll Doings.' - Dr. Valentine kept the Empire 
in a constant roar last evening, and a jolly friend declared himself ab- 
solutely sick to-day, from having laughed so much and so hearty. The 
Doctor will convulse the risibles again this evening. (verbatim) (1) 

576 - H Sept. 27; adv:2/4 - Great Attraction, Herr Alexander, the Great 
Magician, has arrived from the south, on his way to the eastern cities, 
and respectfully announces to the Ladies and Gentlemen of Cleveland, that 
be will give a series of performances in Natural Philosophy and Natural 
Magic, at the Apollo Hall, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday Evening next. 
For particulars see small bills. (1) 

577 - H Sept. 30; ed:3/l - We give up! Alexander the Great would have 
given up his empire for the black magic of Herr Alexander, the magician 
performing at Apollo hall. He converts raw coffee, rice, and beans into 
hot coffee at the swing of a wand - he spirits away watches and spirits 
them back again - he finds eggs in an empty bag, plucks bouquets from 
empty hats, and all with a smoothness and convincing manner worthy of 
"old Nick," the cloven-footed demon himself. 

"Adrian, Blitz, and other Magicians who have astonished the 'Western 
natives,' can't 'hold a candle' to Alexander in legerdemain, and his elec- 
trical chair not only electrified the descendant of Ham who occupied it, 
but the whole audience with the tnost convulsive peals of laughter." (6) 

578 - H Oct. 1:3/1 - Herr Alexander deceived and delighted a large and 
fashionable assembly at tht- Apollo last evening. His last exhibition 
takes place this evening, and as the great Magician is in capital humor 
to-day, as was evidenced by his raising of Old Nick in our sanctum, some- 
thing extra, even for him may be expected. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Circuses; Games &amp; Sports; Music; Theater , .• ■ 

ESTATES 

H Mar. 12:2/2 - See Streets 

579 - H Mar. 14:2/3 - Notice is hereby given to those having claims against 
the estate of Dr. Horace Filley, late of Newburgh, Cuyahoga county, deceased, 
to present the same to the subscriber, legally proven for settlement, and all 
those indebted to said estate are requested to make immediate payment. 
Catharine R. Filley, Administratrix of the Estate of Horace Filley. 
(verbatim) (1) 



98

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 580 - 585 

ESTATES (Cont'd) 

580 - H Apr. 21:3/2 - On the 2nth day of May, A. D., 1845, at 1 o'clock 
in the afternoon, at the door of the Court House in Cuyahoga county, 
Ohio, will be offered for sale to the highest bidder, the following real 
estate, as the property of James Hartness, Jr., deceased, to wit: Lot ■ ' 
No. one hund'-ed and thirty four fl34), situated on Main street, in the 
Buffalo Company purchase (so called) in the City of Ohio, in said county 
appraised at $ 50. 

Terms, half cash in hand, and half in six months. H. Foote, Adm'r. 
(verbatim) (1) 

581 - H Aug. 8:2/4 - The undersigned having been appointed Executors of 
the estate of Margaret Norton, late of Cleveland township, dec'd. All 
persons having claims against said estate are requested to present the 
same, legally proven for settlement, within one year from this date, and 
ail persons indebted to said estate are requested to make immediate pay- 
ment. A. S. Gardner, D. C. Doan, executors. (1) 

EUROPE 

582 - H Jan. 9; ed:2/3 - A swindle perpetrated in Paris cost a shopkeeper 
the loss of several bundles of garments. 

"The... piece of roguery lately practiced in Paris surpasses, in in- 
genuity and wit, anything recorded in the annals of the living." (5) 

583 - H Dec. 3; ed:3/2 - The NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER states that in 
France grapes stored in huge vats for fermentation are crushed and trampled 
by naked men, who come out usually the color of boiled lobsters. As the 
sort of grape bath is said to be healthful, many invalids are delegated for 
the task of grape trampling. 

"What an extra rich flavor it must import to a glass of sparkling wine to 
know that the pure juice you quaff was once used to cleanse and strengthen 
the diseased skin and weak joints of some poor invalid - or that the bever- 
age you drir.k to tan your stomach, once tanned the hide of a dirty son of 
Burgundy, who may be had prepared himself to impart a high flavor to the 
wine by sleeping in the stall of a stable!" (4) 

EXHIBITIONS 

584 - H Apr. 22; ed:3/l - "The Apollo Hall being at present engaged by 
the Serenaders, the Messrs. Henry and Keevil have deferred advertising 
the night of their exhibition in Cleveland in this day's HERALD. We 

hear that all the extensive scenery will be given in one night." (1) 

585 - H Apr. 23; ed:2/4 - "The Messrs. Henry and Keevil give a synopsis 
of their splendid Exhibition in Apollo Hall on Friday night, after which 
they leave for Montreal and Boston, 

"The painting of the Holy Land and astronomical apparatus, with gen- 
eral remarks, must ensure a great audience on the above night." (1) 



99

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 586 - 589 

EXHIBITIONS (Cont'd) 

586 - H July 9; adv:2/4 - Rational, Instructive &amp; Entertaining Exhibition. 
Porteur's Grand Exhibition of Zoology with the Phantasmagoria comprising 
the Mammalia; which will be exhibited in Orders and Genera, according to 
the arrangement by Linnaeus the Great Swedish Naturalist. Mr. W. Porteur 
begs leave respectfully to announce to the Ladies and Gentlemen of Cleve- 
land and vicinity, that he will exhibit the above at Apollo Hall, for 
their entertainment on the evening of Thursday, July 10th. Doors opened 
at half past 7, exhibition to commence at 8. Admittance 12-1/2 c. 
Tickets to be had at the Franklin House. (verbatim) (2) 

EXPANSION, NATIONAL. See Annexation &amp; Expansion 

EXPRESS &amp; EXPRESSMEN 

587 - H Sept. 9; adv:2/5 - Southern Express - A messenger will leave 
Cleveland on Monday of each week for Wooster, Columbus, Xenia, and 
Cincinnati; returning, will leave Cincinnati on Thursday. 

The express via Miami canal packets leave Cleveland daily, reaching 
Cincinnati in four days. 

Office at M. C. Younglove's. Wells and Company. (verbatim) (1) 

FAMILIES &amp; FAMILY LIFE 

H July 1:3/1 • See Schools &amp; Seminaries 

588 - H Sept. 1:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, Leumas says: Parents! 
do you appreciate the momentous responsibility resting upon you? Cast 
your eyes over our county criminal catalogue, and perceive the large 
number of boys led from gloomy jails to be tried for this offense or that. 

"Would you know the end and consequence of allowing your son to roam 
the streets with whatever company he may chance to meet, or to enlist with 
some lawless band by night to annoy the peaceful society by their unpro- 
voked assaults or lawless intrusions?... 

"A few wholesome lessons and a little salutary restraint now, though 
that son is yet respectable and obedient, may save him from shame and 
ignominy and yourselves from sorrow and mortification." (7) 

589 - H Sept. 23; ed:3/2 - Mothers, if you would train your children to 

be useful members of society, keep them off the streets at night. Keep ■' 
the urchin from associations with vulgarity and obscenity as you would ■' 
keep a garden free of weeds. "Look to this matter parents; see more 
especially that your children are not out at night loitering around some 
coffee house. Mothers, make your children love home, and by all means 
encourage them to love you better than all other human beings." (3) 

See also Divorce &amp; Alimony ' . j • •. 

FARMS &amp; FARMING. See Agriculture -•' ■ •' 



100

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 590 - 596 

PLACEHOLDER

FASHIONS 

590 - H Oct. 11:3/1 - The Paris fashions illustrated in foreign papers 
and expected to come here for our adoption are the most ridiculous that 
can be imagined. Men wear tiny hats with almost no brims, coats almost 
without tails, trousers about a yard wide at the ancles (sic) and enor- 
mous watch ribbons bearing bunches of seals. The ladies wear robes 
fitting tightly like a soldier's jacket, paletots, fastened in every re- 
spect like those of men, only made of silk, and bonnets "resembling cor- 
pulent and apoplectic coal scuttles." (2) 

See also Clothing Trade 

FIRE DEPARTMENT 

591 • H Jan. 27:2/4 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 24, it was re- 
solved that the third section of an ordinance passed on May 7, 1836, in 
relation to fire buckets, be published. (1) 

592 - H Feb. 6:2/4 - Engine House, Phoenix Co., No. 4, Feb. 6, '45. At 
the meeting at the Engine House, after the fire the following resolutions 
were passed unanimously: Resolved. That the thanks of this company be 
tendered to Messrs. Shepard, Smead, Wade and Stedman, for refreshments 
furnished at the fire this morning. 

Resolved, That these proceedings be published in the papers of the 
city. Ed. Scovill, Sec'y. (2) 

593 - H Feb. 7:2/3 - Engine House No. 2. Feb. 6, 1845. At a meeting of 
this Company subsequent to the Fire, it was unanimously Resolved, That 
the thanks of the Company be presented to Messrs. D. A. Shepard, E. Wade 
and B. Stedman, for refreshments furnished them during the fire. W. E. 
Lawrence, Foreman. (verbatim) (I) 

594 - H Feb. 18:2/3 - The bill to incorporate the Firemen's General Asso- 
ciation of Cleveland has passed the House. ^verbatim) (1) 

595 - H Mar. 29; adv:2/4 - The Firemen are hereby notified to meet at the 
Farmer Block Reservoir, April 1st for monthly Drill. By order Chief 
Engineer, C. W. Kurd, 1st Asst. Eng'r., I. Eddy, 2nd Asst Eng'r. (1) 

596 - H Apr. 1:2/2 - Council Hall, March 28th, 1845. Fire Department 
met pursuant to notice. The Committee in reference to obtaining a 
charter reported by handing in the same, report accepted. After the 
charter being read, it was accepted and ordered to be put on file. 

Resolved, That the present by-laws of the Association, so far as they 
do not conflict with the Charter, be adopted. 

Resolved, That the thanks of this Association be tendered to the Hon. 
Moses Kelley and John M. Woolsey for their efficient agency in procuring 
said charter. 

Resolved, That the Editors of the several papers of this city be ;" -f 

solicited to publish the charter with the minutes of this meeting. 
J. B. Emmons, Pres., L. H. Cutler, Sec'y. (2) 



101

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 597 - 604 

FIRE DEPARTMENT (Cont'd) 

597 - H Apr. 29:3/3 - The city council met last night and adopted a resolu- 
tion to reconsider the vote of the last meeting appropriating $60 for the con- 
struction of a new fire apparatus, termed the "Battering Ram." (5) 

598 - H May 8:3/1 - The Chief Engineer of our Fire Department has re- 
minded us that, in our hasty notice yesterday of the fire in the morn- 
ing, we omitted paying the tribute due to the hard labors and valuable 
services of the Ohio City Fire Department, which is always prompt in its 
efficient aid at every fire in our city. (verbatim) (1) 

599 - H May 20:3/3 - The city council last night adopted a resolution 
appointing the following fire wardens for the current year; first ward, 

R. Bailey, J. Gardner, J. Mitchell, E. St. John Bernis; second ward, C. F. 
Lender, J. H. Kelley, James E. James; third ward, A. S. Sanford, W. J. 
Goodwin, and C. L. Camp. (3) 

600 - H June 3:3/1 - Fire Department. - The election of officers yesterday 
resulted in the choice of A. S. Sanford, Chief Engineer; W. A. Lawrence 
First Assistant, and James Barnett, Second Assistant Engineer. (verbatim) 

(1) 

601 - H June 6:2/4 - At a meeting of Phoenix engine co.. No. 4 at the 
engine house on (June 3) a resolution was passed directing that the 
thanks of the company be published and tendered to M. M. Spangler, 
chief C. W. Hurd, nnd I. Eddy, for able, efficient, and impartial dis- 
charge of their duties for the past year. (1) 

602 - H June 9:2/4 - At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Fire- 
men's General Association fund, the following resolution was unanimously 
passed: Resolved, That the thanks of the board be tendered to the presi- 
dent, secretary and treasurer, for their able, efficient and impartial 
discharge of their several duties. (1) 

603 - H June 23:2/4 - At the meeting of the fire-department, held on 
June 16, committees were appointed to draft a resolution for the increase 
of the firemen's general association fund the following resolution was 
adopted: Resolved. That the department hold a parade on the Fourth of 
July and have an oration, public dinner, and fire works in the evening. 

(4) 

604 - H July 1; adv:2/4 - The new Propeller PHOENIX, under the command 
of Captain Jones will leave the foot of Superior lane, on Thursday July 

3, at 10 o'clock A. M. for Fairport on an excursion of pleasure, for the 
benefit of the PHOENIX Engine company No. 4, the avails to go towards 
repairing the engine. Refreshments will be provided on board. The Cleve- 
land Brass Band is engaged for the trip. Single tickets 50 cents. 
Tickets admitting one Gentleman and two ladies, $1. (3) 



102

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 605 - 613 

FIRE DEPARTMENT (Cont'd) 

605 - H July 2; adv:2/4 - Fire Department of Cleveland and Ohio Cities, 
Will assemble on the Public Square, on the 4th inst., at 9-1/2 o'clock 
A. M. By order of the Committee of Arrangements. A, S. Sanford, 
Marshal. (verbatim) (1) 

606 - H July 3:3/3 - The common council on June 30 adopted an adverse 
report of a committee on a proposed ordinance to better regulate the 
fire department. 

The council adopted a resolution to appropriate $50 to repair engine 
house no. - [illegible] - (sic) (1) 

607 - H Aug. 2; adv:2/4 - Fire! Fire!! The Fire Department will assemble 
on Tuesday next at the Junction of Euclid &amp; Erie - sts., at 2 o'clock, 
P.M. By order, W. C. Lawrence, A. J. Barnett, Assistant Engineers. 
(verbatim) (1) 

608 - H Aug. 21; ed:3/l - A company of Ithaca, N.Y., Firemen are now 
visiting their friends at Detroit, and will give our city a call, pro- 
bably to-morrow. (verbatim) (1) 

609 - H Aug. 28:2/4 - The fire department will assemble for drill at 
two P. M., Sept. 2, at the junction of Erie and Euclid streets. By 

order of assistant engineers, W, G. Lawrence and James Barnett. (1) 

610 - H Aug. 30:3/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Fireman says: I 
am much surprised to learn that Cleveland fire engine company No. 5 has 
taken a pleasure trip to Buffalo, accompanied by their engine and appara- 
tus. What will happen if a fire breaks out here in their absence? 

"Our city has and is expending largely in procuring substantial Fire 
Engines and furnishing water, to subdue a fire that may break out at 
any moment, and rage with determined severity, causing irreparable loss 
and suffering, and will they justify any company or body of men in carry- 



ing off such engines for several days at a time, on a mere party of 
pleasure? Is this a standing rule, adopted by our City Council?" 



(4) 



611 - H Sept. 1; adv:3/2 - Cataract Engine Company No. 5, of Cleveland, 
tender their sincere thanks to the Fire Department of the City of Buffalo 
for the attention shown them on a visit there. 

Also to Major Masten for his kind invitation to visit him. 
John Forbey, Jr., Foreman. ." (3) 

612 - H Sept. 15:2/4 - Fire, Fire. - The Fire Department of Cleveland, 
are notified to meet at the court house, on Tuesday evening, Sept. 16th, 
at 7-1/2 o'clock, to elect one secretary to fill the vacancy occasioned 
by the resignation of Mr. John Forby. J. J. Vinall, President of the 
Board of Directors. E. Shepard, Sec'y, pro. tern. (verbatim) (1) 

613 - H Sept. 17:3/1 - The election of Secretary of the Fire Department 
yesterday resulted in the choice of Frederick Whitehead by a majority of 

46 over E. Shepard. (verbatim) (1) 
 



103

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 614 - 621

FIRE DEPARTMENT (Cont'd)

614 - H Nov. 1; adv:2/4 - The Fire Department will assemble on Nov. 4, 
at the new Reservoir, corner of Water and St. Clair, for the last public 
drill of the season. ■ ■ - .- .■ (1) 

615 - H Nov. 21:2/3 - At the city council meeting on Nov. 17, J. Mitchell, 
C. F. Lender and W. T. Goodwin were appointed acting fire wardens. 

A committee was appointed to examine and report the expense of erecting 
a large reel for the purpose of drying the hose. (1) 

616 - H Dec. 27:3/1 - Phoenix fire engine company No. 4 will receive a 
silver trumpet at its engine house on Water st., on Dec. 29. After the 
ceremony of presentation, the company will parade through the principal 
streets and dine at the Merchant's hotel. In the evening a fireman's 

ball will be given at the hotel. (9) 

FIRES &amp; FIRE PREVENTION 

617 - H Jan. S:3/l - The building occupied by Messrs. T. N. Bond and com- 
pany as a general trading store was totally consumed by fire yesterday. 
The building was owned by S. S. Stone. 

In the loft of the builJing w.ts about $800 worth of vessel rigging 
which belonged to Capt. William Lacy. (3) 

618 - H Jan. 16:3/1 - The house of Alva Smith, in Bedford, was consumed 
by fire on the 8th inst. The building had just been erected and nearly 
finished, wien some little boys got to plaving with fire and shavings, 
which caused its destruction. Loss from $600 to $800. (verbatim) 

(1) 

619 - H Jan. 28:3/1 - The woolen factory at East Cleveland was entirely 
consumed on Saturday night. It is not known how the fire was communicated 
to the building; it might have caught from the stove-pipe, or from spon- 
taneous combustion among the wool and grease. Loss ten or twelve hun- 
dred dollars. Small insurance on the machinery. 

Building owned by Mr, Samuel Cozad, and remainder of property belonged 
to Messrs. Kay, Ramsbottom, and one or two others. (verbatim) (1) 

620 - H Feb. 4:3/2 - The soap and candle factory of Mr. Ingraham on the 'i 
river, near the Catholic Church, was burned last evening. Loss fully 
covered we learn, by the Etna Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn, 
(verbatim) (1) 

621 - H Feb. 6; ed:2/l - At about three A. M. today the Cleveland Tem- 
perance House and the building on Superior st., adjacent were destroyed 
by fire. The fire originated in the kitchen in the rear of the Temper- 
ance House. Fortunately the wind was in a direction to favor the slow 
progress of the flames. The loss was very heavy, there being no insur- 
ance on the building which was owned by the Commercial Bank of Lake 
Erie and was rented to G. Dorwin. 

"We never before witnessed the burning of combustible wooden buildings, 
where such ample time was allowed for the removal of their contents, and 
in this instance much industry and care in handling property was manifested." 

(7) 



104

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 622 - 628 

FIRES &amp; FIRE PREVENTION (Cont'd) 

622 - H Feb. 10:3/1 - Last evening the dwelling and grocery of L. Ehrlick 
in the New Jerusalem portion of the city was burned. Most of the con- 
tents were saved. The building was insured. (1) 

623 - H Mar. 10:2/2 - There have been something like half a dozen alarms 
of fire the week past, but no serious fire has occurred. The alarm to- 
day proceeded from the burning of a barn east of Erie street in the 
vicinity of Mr. May's. The fire was got under and the building only 
partially destroyed. (verbatim) (1) 

624 - H Mar. 12; ed:3/l - Two more alarms of fire were received last 
night. One was caused by the burning of an old building which was be- '&gt;' 
ing removed at the canal basin, and which was set on fire by an incen- " " 
diary. The second originated when a lot of combustibles were collected 

and set on fire for the purpose of excitement. 

"Our excellent Fire Department has been called out a dozen times or 
more by false alarms or the burning out of chimneys within a couple of 
weeks, and the annoyance should some way be abated." (3) 

625 - H Apr. 8:3/2 - A small frame dwelling house on St. Clair street 
was consumed last evening, supposed to be the work of an incendiary as 
the house had not been occupied for some days. It was owned at the 

east and insured. (verbatim) (1) 

626 - H Apr. 14; ed:3/l - About 11:30 p.m. yesterday the Champlain 
street school house was set on fire by some fiend in human shape and 
destroyed. 

"The prompt efforts of the Firemen prevented further spread of the 
flames. The building destroyed was of no great value." (1) 

627 - H Apr. 14; ed:3/l - We anticipate our usual publication hour in 
order to lay before our reader a full account of the terrible afflictions 
which has unexpectedly befallen our Pittsburgh friends. "The numerous 
sufferers will have the warmest condolence of every heart, and we trust 
will receive substantial sympathies of the affluent in all the sister 
cities of the Union. 

"The destruction of property is unparalleled. The burnt district covers 
over thirty acres, and the buildings burned number from 1200 to 2000." 

The AMERICAN places the loss at $10,000,000. (3) 

628 - H Apr. 15:2/4 - In a letter to the editor, "Caution" says: I would 
suggest to the council that they cause large Reservoirs to be constructed 
at the following points: on St. Clair street at the junction of Water, 
Bank, Seneca, Wood, and Erie sts; on public square; at the junction of 
Superior and Erie sts., and on Prospect st., near the market. 

"With an efficient Fire Department, and the Reservoirs always full, 
no very serious fire could occur in our city. Without them, I would 
advise every citizen to keep insured to the full amount in several 
companies. 



105

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 629 - 634 :'•.. 

FIRES &amp; FIRE PREVENTION (Cont'd) 

"When there is an alarm of fire at night, persons should be careful 
to have their houses and stores locked while they are absent." (2) 

629 - H Apr. 16:3/1 - We are gratified to see that Mayor Starkweather 
has offered a reward of $250 for the discovery of the incendiary or 
incendiaries who fired the Champlain street school house on Sunday night, 
(verbatim) (1) 

630 - H Apr. 17:3/1 - The barn, workshop, sheds, and other buildings 
belonging to Judge Coe, of Dover caught fire on Tuesday Apr. 15 and, 
together with their contents, were totally consumed. The fire is sup- 
posed to have originated from the firing of a gun. The loss is esti- 
mated at $1,000. There was no insurance. (3) 

631 • H Apr. 25:3/3 - At the city council meeting last night, $60 was 
appropriated for the building of a machine to pull down buildings in 

time of fire. (1) 

632 - H May 7:3/1 - A destructive fire occurred at the corner of Seneca 
and Centre sts. this morning, which swept off several tenements before 
its rapid progress could be arrested. A Mr. Cottrell lost his car- 
penter shop and tools. A. M. Lowman's carriage was burned, resulting 
in a loss of about $300. Some 11 families were rendered houseless by 
the conflagration but most of them saved a large share of their effects. 
No doubt exists but that the fire was the work of incendiaries. The 
alarming recurrence of fires should lead the city police to detect and 
bring to justice the miscreants who endanger the security of the whole 
community. (7) 

633 - H May 12:2/4 - Mr. J. F. Hanks tenders his warmest gratitude to 
his neighbors in East Cleveland, for their well directed efforts, in 
saving his dwelling from destruction, during the conflagration of his . ■ 
barn on yesterday afternoon. (verbatim) (1) 

634 - H July 23; cd:2/2 - On Apr. 10, a $5,000,000 fire swept through 
Pittsburgh, devastating entire blocks and bringing want and misery. How- 
ever, nothing daunted, the brave citizens of that town, with the aid 

of sympathizers all over the land, commenced rebuilding and reconstructing 
and already 500 new structures are in the process of construction. In 
five years, it is estimated, the entire financial loss of the city will 
be made up by Pittsburgh's productive industry, which, it is stated, adds 
$1,000, COO yearly to the wealth of the town. Stout hearts have won again! 

"Well may Pennsylvania be proud of such a city; well may our country 
be proud of such a people; and well will it be for the people of other 
cities, if they profit by the example set them by the industrious enter- 
prising and energetic citizens of the 'Iron city.'" (7) 



106

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 635 - 641 

FIRES &amp; FIRE PREVENTION (Cont'd) 

635 - H Aug. 15:3/1 - The alarm of fire this morning proceeded from a Lumber 
Kiln on N^ble Alley. It was partially consumed. The loss was about $100. 
The building was owned by Mr. N'lble - the lumber by Mr. Cobb, Sutherland 
&amp; Co. (1) 

636 - H Sept. 29; ei:3/2 - E. Mars of New York has invented a mode of work- 
ing the fire engine by whicn it can be operated by a lesser number of men 
and with greater ease. By means of a screw, turned in a moment by a crank 
attache 1, the machine is lifted f re m the ground when required to be set in 
motion and the hinJ wheels made to serve as fly wheels. With the aid of a 
rope attached to the fly wheels, the machine can be worked by eight men, 
or 200. so that any number cf persons can assist by merely holding and pulling 
on the rope. 

"It will save t' e almosf ir.sjpp irtable labor now experienced by firemen, 
and be, with'.ut djubt, a mjst invaluable i nprovement." (3) 

637 - H Oct. 10:3/1 - Tl.e dwelling house of Mr. O'e]], on Pittsburgh street, 
in the vicinity of the Pittsburgh House, was burned last night. The loss 
was from $300 to $1000. There was no insurtnce. 

The house was un jccupied, lu*: persons had been employed during the day 
previous in cleaning and preparing the dwelling for the reception of a 
family. (1) 

638 ■ H Nov. 11:3/1 • On the )2th inst. the dwelling house of Mr. Anthony 
Snerman, in Ma\ field, in this county, was burned with all its contents. 

Mr. S. had $45 in money burned, and all his wheat, which was stored in the 
house. Mr. Si'.erman and family are peculiarly unfortunate, for the tornado 
that swept over a portion of Mayfield in 1842, crossed the farm of Mr. S. 
and blew away his house with its contents. (1) 

639 - H Nov. 12:3/2 - A cooper shop near Union Lane was burned last eve- 
ning. (1) 

640 - H Nov. 21; ed:3/l - The season of the year has now arrived when the 
utmost care and vigilance are called for to guard against fire in homes 
and stores. Deposits of waste paper and all combustible stores and stock, 
must be watched and placed away carefully, lest the flames start from these 
sources. 

"The duty of every citizen to prevent any fire from originating on his 
own premises should be vigilantly performed, and the effect would be that 
there would be fewer alarms, and a smaller number of calls for the services 
of the fire companies." (5) 

641 - H Dec. 23:2/2 - A fire broke out in the brewery of Governor Hamilton, 
on Michigan st., on Dec. 21, and caused a loss of $2,000. 

Hamilton thinks the fire was the work of incendiaries. No insurance 
covers the loss. (2) 



107

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 642 - 649 - • • 

FIRES &amp; FIRE PREVENTION (Cont'd)

642 - H Dec. 29:3/1 - Last night fire broke out at the clothing store 
of C. and W. Fink, on River st. Insurance of $2600 will nearly cover 

the loss. The origin of the fire was undetermined. (3) 

See also Fire Department; Insurance; Welfare 

FISH &amp; GAME . . ■ 

643 - II Jan. 6:3/1 - The steamboat UNITED STATES, which arrived here 
from Boston on Jan. 3, brought to Cleveland codfish, haddock, and other 

sea foods. (1) 

644 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 22, the clerk 
was authorized to give notice that proposals will be received at the 
next meeting of the council for the use of the unoccupied ground upon 
that part of Bath st. adjacent to the lake for fishing purposes; that 

this ground be divided into two parts by the east line of lot 25. (1) 

645 - H Mar. 3:3/3 - At the city council meeting last night, the mayor 
was authorized to publish notices inviting proposals for the fishing 

ground on Bath st. (1) 

646 - H Mar. 10:2/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 7, it was 
resolved to accept the proposal of George C. Wild, for the west fishing 
ground on Bath st. for the term of three years. (1) 

647 - H Mar. 20; ed:2/3 - Cist's Advertiser says: - For years, at re- 
peated intervals, efforts have been made to introduce the White Fish of 
our great lakes into market here and other places as a substitute for 
the shad of the Susquehanna and Connecticut. 

These efforts have proved a failure, we think, due to the use of • 

western salt in curing the whitefish. They come out of the cure with 
a peculiar flavor. 

This could be avoided, we believe, if New York City or Kanawha 
Salines were used in curing whitefish. 

(HERALD) "Does it not sufficiently affect the interests of packers 
of fish on our Lakes to examine into this matter? The exportation of 
fish is an item of considerable importance and that it should increase 
rather than diminish, we think must in a measure depend upon the rep- 
utation the article bears abroad." (7) 

648 - H July 16:2/2 - We were indebted this morning to our old friend, 
Capt. Hart, of the fine propellor OREGON, for delicious trout and white 
fish fresh from Lake Huron. (verbatim) (1) 

649 - H July 28:3/1 - Fish and Fowl. - Many thanks to friend Winslow, 
Clerk of the staunch BUNKER HILL, for a fine Mackinaw trout and a flock 
of Prairie chickens. (verbatim) (1) 



108

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 650 - 655 

PLACEHOLDER

FLOWERS &amp; FLORISTS 

650 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - To Amateurs of Flowers - Elliott &amp; Co., have 
now in flower a collection of "Picotees," to which they invite inspection. 
These flowers are equal in beauty and size to the Carnation, and are as 
hardy as the most common Garden pink. (1) 

651 - H July 9:3/1 • The prettiest thing we have seen this season was 
received yesterday from Mr. Elliott's "Owl's Nest." The chief attraction 
was the splendid Picotees, of which there were some 20 varieties, of 
different colors and richly tinted. The "Belle Kate," a seedling of sur- 
passing beauty, shone the queen of flowers. Our fair friends should not 
fail to secure the Picotees for their borders. They are perfectly hardy, 

and Mr. E. has some 30 varieties from which to select. (verbatim) (1) 

652 - H July 22; ed:4/2 - The curious in flowers can have an opportunity 
of seeing the Rhododendron Maximum Album in flowers by visiting the gar- 
den of Messrs. Elliott &amp; Co. We were there yesterday morning and saw 

the flowers in full bloom. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Greenhouses &amp; Nurseries; Horticulture 

FOOD ADULTERATION &amp; INSPECTION 

653 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 • James Craw, Inspector of Pork, Beef, Fish, 

etc., office foot of St. Clair st., on the wharf. (1) 

654 - H Jan. 15; ed:3/2,3 - A majority report of the common council, 
signed by W. T. Goo-!win and George F. Marshall, is strongly in favor of 
the passage of the bill now before the general assembly of Ohio, giving 
to the city council the power to appoint inspectors of provisions. 

The third member of the committee, William F. Allen, gives the minority 
report as being unfavorable towards the law, believing that inspection 
should be left to those buying and selling the provisions. 

"We see no reason why there should be any inspector of these articles. 
As it is now, a packer of Fish, for instance, when he puts them up, knows 
that when they arrive in our market it is necessary to have them inspected 
before they are sold, and consequently he puts only salt sufficient for 
their keeping until they reach here and are inspected; whereas if there 
were no Inspector, it would be for his interest to so pack his fish that 
they would need no repacking, and by putting his brand upon them, the 
quality would soon become known, and the brand would sell the fish as 
readily as does now the Inspector's brand." (22) 

655 - H Feb. 6:2/1 - In the senate on Feb. 3, Wetmore reported the bill 
to authorize the authorities of the city of Cleveland to provide for the 
appointment of inspectors of provisions in said city, with an amendment 
introducing an entire new bill. 

Jones moved the bill be laid on the table, to be printed, Kelley 
objected to the motion at some length, and explained the provisions of 
the bill. The senate refused to table the bill, the report of the 



109

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 656 - 664 

FOOD ADULTERATION &amp; INSPECTION (Cont'd) 

committee was agretd to, and the bill was ordered to a third reading • 

yeas 19, nays 11. (3) 

656 - H Feb. 10; ed:3/l - We learn from Columbus that the senate sub- 
stituted the draft of the bill drawn up by the city council and pub- 
lished in the report of the council proceedings of Jan. 11, for the house 
bill "to authorize the City of Cleveland to appoint inspectors of pro- 
visions and other articles." The house agreed on Feb. 6 to the amendment 

of the senate. (4) 

657 - H Apr. 24:2/4 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 22, William 
Lemen was appointed inspector of beef, pork and fish. - (1) 

658 • H May 1:2/5 - Wm. Lemen, City Inspector, Office and Warehouse, 
at the Foot of Light House-street, on the River. Where I will receive 
and Inspect Beef, Pork, Fish, etc., and deliver it, free of charge, 

at any warehouse in the city. (verbatim) (1) 

659 - H June 28:2/2 - There is no article of food in which so much 
deception can be practiced with so great success as that of flour. If 
any one will take the trouble to visit the flour market of Cleveland, 
he will find ship stuff middlings, and fine flour, all branded superfine 
by the millers. As it requires both skill and experience to determine 
the difference in the various grades of flour, the law provided, and 
the consumer should avail himself of the inspector's brand; the in- 
spector being a disinterested person between the buyer and seller. (5) 

660 - H July I; adv: 1/2 - James M. Craw, Inspector of Pork, Beef, Fish, 
etc., office foot of St. Clair st., en the wharf. (1) 

661 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - Mr. A. N. Gray, having rec'd the appoint-nent 

by the court of caramon pleas, of Inspector of flour, meal and buscuit, 

and guager and inspector of foreign and domestic spirits and oils, has 

opened his office at the fo )t of Superior-lane, next door to the 

custom house, where he will be ready at any time to attend to such calls 

as he may be favored with in his line. (1) 

662 - H Die. 5:3/2 - Al the city council meeting on Dec. 1, J. M. Craw 
was appointed inspector of meat for the remainder of the year at a 

$125 yearly license fee. (1)

FOOD &amp; DRINK 

663 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/6 - No. 1 Mackerel. Herring, Whitefish, Codfish and 
Trout, just rec'd and for sale by E. Bingbaii S: Cc. (1) 

664 - H J.ir. 3; adv: 4/7 - Oysters! Oysters!! Oysters!!! We are now 
receiving daily a full supply of Fresh Oysters direct from Baltimore: ' 

they are arriving in fine condition and will be warranted to purchasers. 



110 

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 665 - 669 

FOOD &amp; DRINK (Cont'd) 

Families and Country Merchants sending their orders (enclosing a re- 
mittance) will receive prompt attention and be supplied at the lowest 
prices. 

We have also rec'd this day a full supply of Scotch Ale and London 
Porter, of superior quality. H. Mould &amp; Sons, Phoenix Buildings. (1) 

665 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/3 - Oysters! O.vsters! May be found at the New 
York Jobbing House, Up Stairs, 2d door below 0. Cutter's Auction Store, 
at the head of Water st., which are received Daily from Baltimore (war- 
ranted good) and will be sold by the Can or dozen, as cheap as at any 
other establishment of the kind. 

Orders from families in the city or country, with the money, promptly 
filled. They can be sent by stage to any part of the state, and a lib- 
eral reduction will be made to dealers. 

N.B. - Game of every variety of the season, served up at the Jobbing 
House Saloon, on the shortest notice. E. M. Segur &amp; Co. Dec. 26, 1844. 

(1) 

666 - H Feb. 1; adv: 1/5 - Oysters! Oysters!! Oysters!!! - A. Cozzens 
is now receiving Daily from Baltimore, by Holt &amp; Maltby's old regular 
line. Fresh York River Oysters, and will continue to receive through the 
season. They will be sold by the Can or dozen, as cheap as at any other 
establishment in the city. 

Orders from the country, accompanied with the money, will be promptly 
attended to, and Oysters can be sent by stage to any part of the State. 
A liberal reduction will be made to dealers. 

N.B. - Oysters served up in every variety of style. (1) 

667 - H July 1; adv: 3/5 • Ginger Beer Powders - For preparing ex-tempore 
a most agreeable and healthy beverage, being ready for immediate use, 
with onlv the addition of water; for sale at the sign of the "GOOD 
SAMARITAN." (1) 

668 - H July 1; adv: 4/3 - Lobsters, Oysters, Blackfish and Eels. Rec'd 
this day from New York, fresh and good for sale at Cozzen's. (1) 

See also Alcoholic Liquors; Food Adulteration &amp; Inspection; Fruits &amp; Vegetables; Groceries &amp; Grocers; Meat 

FOREIGN POPULATION. See Citizenship; Immigration &amp; Emigration 

FOREIGN RELATIONS 

669 - H Aug. 28; ed:3/l - Our Canadian neighbors very carefully note every 
riot in this country and try to deduce therefrom an argument against our 
republican form of government. Yet in Canada only recently 150 soldiers 
were required to quell a mob of "Irish Canallers" at Montreal. 

"They mt unfrequently comment with severity, apparently forget that 
the military are called out much oftener in Canada to suppress mobs than 
in the United States." (2) 



111 

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 670 • 674 

FOREIGN RELATIONS (Cont'd) 

670 - H Nov. 4; ed:3/l - The official paper at Washington speaks of the 
interference of England in the affairs of the Montevidean and Argentine 
Governments as a flagrant outrage. It declares it is "an event fitted 

to rouse at once all the sensibilities and all the apprehensions of the 
United States," &amp;c., &amp;c. 

Now that the Mexican ghosts are laid, Father Ritchie very naturally 
directs his vision still farther South for "men in buckram." (2) 

FOREIGN RELATIONS 

Diplomatic Service 

671 - H June 26; ed:3/l • "The appointment of Mr. McLane, Minister to 
England, appears to be well received by the country generally, and no 
note of disapprobation is heard save from a portion of Mr. Polk's 

friends known as the 'Young Democracy' or 'Barn Burners.'" (5) 

672 • H Aug. 5; ed:2/l - Bryant editor of the New York EVENING POST, 
in a letter from England, commenting on the appointment of McLane to 
represent the United States in England says: I regret that Mr. Polk 
should have made such an appointment as that of McLane, as it would have 
been much better to allow Everett to remain. In point of character and 
capacity, Everett is much superior to the man selected as his successor. 

"The appDintment of Mr. McLane to the English Mission gives but poor 
satisfaction to the party which elevated Mr. Polk to the Presidency." (4) 

673 - H Aug. 8; ed:3/l - Delazon Smith, Esq., U. S. special envoy to 
Equador, will soon depart on the U. S. ship Warren for Porto, and thence 
to his post. "What a stride Delazon has taken since he wrote OBERLIN 
UNMASKED." (2) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion; Commerce - Foreign Trade; Tariff 

FOREIGN TRADE. See Commerce • Foreign Trade 

FORGERIES 

674 ■ H May 5; ed:3/l • It is alleged that George Q. Pomeroy has been 
guilty of forgery, having drawn a draft of $5000 upon a firm in New York,' 
forged the acceptance thereof, offered it for discount to one of our 
bankers, and obtained about $3,900 upon it. 

This transaction and other facts now brought to light seem to prove 
that Pomeroy, and he alone, is guilty of the fraud upon the Phoenix Bank 
of Hartford. "'■' 

While we make this statement in sorrow, it gives us pleasure to state ■'■-■- 
that no imputation, direction or indirectly, rests upon the fair fame 
of his partner, C. J. Woolson, Esq., of the firm of Woolson and Pomeroy. 
A heavy pecuniary loss will fall upon Woolson, but we are happy to learn 
his business will go on as heretofore without embarrassment." (5) 



112

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 675 - 683 

PLACEHOLDER

FRUITS &amp; VEGETABLES 

675 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - Dried Apples &amp; Peaches. - 500 bushels of the 
former, and 20 bushels of the latter, peeled and good, for sale by Theod. 
Faber. (1) 

676 - H Apr. 10; ed:3/l - We fear the fruit crop, which seldom fails in 
Ohio, has this season been pretty generally cut off. In this quarter a 
few late peaches and plums may have escaped, and it is hoped that apples 
were not forward enough to be materially injured by the late severe frost. 
In central and southern portions of the State the injury to fruit is still 
greater. (3) 

H May 7:3/1 - See Weather 

677 - H June 12:2/1 - Friend Mcintosh has presented us with two baskets . 
of the finest strawberries we have tested this season. One contained &gt; 
the Ross Phoenix variety which plants sell for $1.50 a dozen. 

The other basket is filled with temp'ing Grove End Scarlets. 

Plants can be obtained from Mcintosh &amp; Co. (4) 

678 • H June 13:3/1 - Our type yesterday gave truly monstrous size to 
friend Mcintosh's strawberries. 

The berries were a sufficient marvel without adding three or more 
inches to their diameter! Between 4 and 5 inches in circumference, that's 
all. (verbatim) (1) 

679 - H June 14; ed:2/l ■ The finest cherries we have seen this season 
were from the garden of H. Foot, Esq., Ohio City. They were truly 
splendid. (verbatim) (1) 

680 - H June 23:3/1 - Splendid Cherries - We are indebted to the polite 
attention of Mrs. Smith for a basket of the finest cherries of the sea- 
son, embracing several choice varieties, among them the Napoleon, a very 
large, fair and desirable fruit. - The good taste Mrs. S. displays in 

the selection and cultivation of choice fruits and flowers, is worthy 

of the imitation of all our fair city friends. (verbatim) (1) 

681 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - Figs, Figs, Figs. Hodruras. A choice article, 
very low by F. W. Wise, on the dock. (1) 



682 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - 250 Bus. Dried Apples. 

200 bus. Potatoes, for sale by W. L. Standart. 

(1) 

683 - H Sept. 3:3/1 • Though the season has been unpropitious for the 
usual display of fine fruit in the Lake country, the location of some 
of our best cultivators has enabled them to obtain some very choice 
specimens. We were reminded of this yesterday by the receipt from 
Mrs. Smyth of a very tempting plate of mammoth peaches, among them a 
very large, golden colored, and fine flavored seedling, planted by her 
own hands, and which our horticulturists, in compliment to Mrs. S. have 






113

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 684 - 692 

FRUITS &amp; VEGETABLES (Cont'd) 

given the name of Mrs. Smyth's Seedling. The late Washington plum cul- 
tivated by Mrs. S. is also worthy of attention. (verbatim) (2) 

684 - H Nov. 18:3/1 - Monster Potato. - Warrensville challenges the State 
to produce a larger Bilboa Potato than one of that variety raised this 
season by Mr. H. M. Addison. It has as many horns as father Miller's 
"great beast," and weighs three pounds and three quarters! (1) 

685 - H Nov. 19:2/4 - Specimen Fruits. - In accordance with arrangements 
made this fall with cultivators of Fruit at the East, I have now upon my 
table specimens of the Northern Spy, Jewett's fine Red, Hubbardston Non- 
such, Golden Ball, Minister, and many other varieties of new Apples. Those 
who are desirous of examining them, are invited so to do. F. R. Elliott. 

(1) 

686 - H Dec. 5:2/1 - Mr. Van Tyne at the Cash and Barter Store, Superior 
Street, has a stock of over 200 barrels of the finest Winter apples, imported 
this season. They are from Wayne co., N. Y., and are large, fair, and in 
excellent order. Among the varieties are Russets, Pippins, Gilliflowers, 
Seek-no-further, Belmore Sweets, Winter, Long Island and New York Green- 
ings, Spitzenbergs, &amp;c. The prices too, are very reasonable, considering 

the failure of the apple crop in this section. (verbatim) (2) 

FURNITURE 

687 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - D. W. Duty, Cabinet Maker and Undertaker, Cor- 
ner St. Clair and Water streets. (1) 

688 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - D. A. Shepard, Chair Manufacturer, No. 27, Water 
street. (1) 

689 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Cabinet Makers, etc., Gardner &amp; Vincent, Cabinet 
Makers, Water Street; keep constantly on hand a splendid assortment of 
Furniture. (1) 

690 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Joseph Sargeant, Looking Glass, Portrait and 
Picture Frame Manufacturer, 32 Superior street, opposite the Franklin 
House, Cleveland, Ohio; keeps on hand, (at wholesale and retail) a • ; 
splendid assortment of Gilt and Mahogany Framed Looking Glasses, of the 
latest patterns. Also, for sale all sizes of Looking Glass Plates of the 
first quality. Old Looking Glasses repaired. (1) 

691 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/l - Office Chairs - Several patterns, with or with- 
out Cushions, with seats that turn on the centre and with Castors, for " "■' 
sale at the Furniture and Chair Ware Rooms, opposite the Mansion-house, 

by Gardner &amp; Vincent. (1) 

692 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - Joseph Sargeant, Looking Glass, Portrait and 
Picture Frame Manufacturer, No. 13 Superior- lane. (1) 



114

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 693 - 700 

FURNITURE (Cont'd) 

693 - H July 10:3/1 • A few days since, a citizen of Canandaigua, N. Y., 
purchased of our townsmen, Messrs. D. A. Shepard chair makers, a set of 
fine Mahogany parlor chairs, being a nicer article, in the opinion of the 
purchaser, than could be found in the Eastern cities. (verbatim) (1) 

694 - H Sept. 2; adv:3/4 - On Wednesday, Next Sept. 4th, at 10, p.m. 
Sale Of New Furniture, At Fry &amp; Frazier's 2 doors below Alderman 
Whitaker's Tin Shop, Superior Lane. C. Mollen, Auctioneer. (2) 

GAMBLING &amp; LOTTERIES 

695 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/5 - Drawn Numbers of New Franklin Railroad Lottery, 
Class No. C. Q., for 1845, drawn at Windsor, Canada West, Jan. 1st, 1845 - 
75: 24: 64: 45: 31: 11: 1: 65: 43: 36: 51: 22. (verbatim) (1) 

696 - H July 1; adv:2/5 - Splendid July Schemes. J. G. Gregory &amp; Co., 
Managers. 30,000 Dollars! Alexandria Lottery - Class No. 28 for 1845 
to be drawn at Alexandria, D. C. July 12. 

Splendid Capitals: $30,000, $10,000, $5,000, $2,820! One hundred 
prizes of $1,000. Tickets only $10. (2) 

697 - H Aug. 2:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Friend of Humanity" 
says: J. H. Green, the reformed gambler who spoke so convincingly in 
revealing the evils of his former life, deserves the thanks given him 
by the Anti-Gambling society of Cleveland. 

"The ball is in motion, and it has already received a momentum more 
than human, and we trust it will move on with accelerated velocity, 
bearing down all opposition, until the heart-rending scenes consequent 
upon the atrocious vice of gambling shall be viewed only in the past." (5) 

GAMES &amp; SPORTS 

698 • H Aug. 16; ed:3/l - A trotting match between John Scholl's "Bell 
Ringer" and J. W. Howden's "Dave Tod" will be held at the Kinsman 
course on Sept. 13 for $500 a side. 

"'Bell Ringer' has shown a specimen on this course, and we will just 
whisper to our clever neighbor Howden, that 'Dave' must make a little 
better time than his political namesake did last fall, or 'Tod and 
Victory' will part company." (2) 

699 ■ H Oct. 18:3/1 - We were reminded by the receipt this morning of a 
pair of fine ducks from Gould, steward of the CHESAPEAKE, that this 
is duck and goose hunting season at Sandusky bay. Some of our city 
sportsmen are 'bagging 'em' these days. (1) 

700 - H Oct. 22:3/2 - The "Cleveland and Sandusky Duck and Goose 
Hunting association" must be enjoying capital sport at "camp McCurdy" 



115

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 701 - 705 C'j." ■ 

GAMES &amp; SPORTS (Cont'd) " " 

about these days. The party of sharp-shooters remembered their friends 

in this city to-day, with quite a vessel load of game, and the "ducks 

and geese" were liberally distributed. (verbatim) (1) 

701 - H Dec. 2:3/1 - Sleighing. - Better sleighing has not been known 
in this section for years. Snow several inches deep, and roads hard 
and smooth. - We understand that sleighing is good South to Wooster, 

West to Elyria, and East to Buffalo. (verbatim) (1) 

GENERAL STORES. See Retail Stores &amp; Commodities; specific trades and commodities 

GOVERNMENT. See City Government; Politics &amp; Government 

GRAIN 

702 - H Feb. 4; ed:3/2 - It would seem from an article in the Ohio 
CULTIVATOR, an excellent paper recently established in Columbus, that, 
judging by the quantity of wheat passing the Ohio canal, the wheat crop 
is decreasing every year. "As an evidence that the cause of the failure 
of the wheat crop is not generally understood, we can state, from our 
own personal observation, that many fields in Ohio which were said to 
have been destroyed by rust, the past summer, were in reality very little 
effected by the rust at all. The straw merely turned brown, because it 
had not the materials to give it a better color, and the berry did not 
fill, simply because the plant could not obtain the proper elements for 

to fill with! When will farmers begin to study nature's laws and conform 
their practice to the lessons which she teaches?" (3) 

703 - H June 3; ed:3/l - This extraordinary season is creating quite a 
panic among the farmers. Severe frosts last week were hard on the wheat, 
and failure of this important crop is anticipated. Some farmers in this 
vicinity have purchased and laid by a year's stock of flour in anticipa- :' 
tion cf scarcity in the land. '(2) 

704 - H June 16; ed:2/l - We are gratified to learn from central and 
southern Ohio that the pinic in regard to the failure of our staple 
crops is subsiding, and that appearances are more promising. A careful 
observer informs us the wheat crop will fully equal the crop of last year, •■ 
and, unless fall frosts should be unusually early, the corn crop will be 

the heaviest for several years. ■ '' 

"The corn crop is backward, but the ground is in capital order, and * •" 
quantity growing large. The rains of late have been general in the 
State, and will do much to push forward crops and allay croaking and 
panic." (3) 

705 - H July 1; adv: 3/5 - Shorts and Corn. A cargo of shorts from 
the Black Rock Mills, N. Y., for sale by the subscriber, in quantities 
to suit purchasers. Also 1000 bushels first rate corn at my store house 

in Ohio City, J. B. Palmer. (1) 



116

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 706 - 709 

GRAIN (Cont'd) 

706 • H July 10; ed:2/l • Published receipts of flour and wheat to July 1 
show a slight falling off from last year's figures, and as western depots 
are now very slightly stocked, it becomes a question with western produce 
dealers whether the receipts for the next 60 days will be sufficient to 
prevent any improvement in prices on the seaboard. The present falling 
off in receipts would indeed have created a speculative spirit in the east 
had it occurred several years ago, but such is not the case this season. 
Then, too, eastern dealers had hoped that a wheat surplus in New York 
would meet the western deficiencies, but present reports show the 
Empire state crop will be but an ordinary one with no surplus to spare. 

"The wheat harvest throughout the United Stages is earlier than an 
average, but at prevailing prices it is not likely to be marketed earlier 
than in past seasons. In every direction the accounts are univeisally 
favorable as to the superior quality, but in the States of New York and 
Ohio it is very doubtful whether the quantity will equal last year." (12) 

707 - H Aug. 9; ed:2/l - The Columbia County REPUBLICAN complains 
of severe droughts in Albany, Rensselaer, Schenectady, and Saratoga 
counties, and bemoans the loss of more than half the expected crop of 
hay, oats, corn, and potatoes. 

"It appears that our great drouth has been transferred to portions of 
the State of New York." (2) 

708 - H Aug. 25; ed:2/3 - The recfnt movements in breadstuffs in England 
have put the New York factors into their seven-league boots, and they are 
stepping it up as in olden ti'nes, but we hope our western operators will 
not take the same course. B&lt;'fore arrival of the news that the English 
wheat crop was faltering, Genessee was dull at $4.25 and Ohio at $4.13; 
two days afterwards $4.60 was asked for the former and $4.50 for the 
latter, considerable sales being maJe for shipment to England at $4.36 
and $4.50, but not sufficient to yive any sensible relief to the market. 

If good weather com; s to England, there is no reason to suppose the crop 
there will fail, and it follows that the English demand for our wheat will 
cease. 

"Our Western produce dealers have suffered so severely year after year 
by these Will-o' -wisps, ' that we hope they will not be caught in an En- 
glish fog, but pursue their purchases with sole reference to the ordinary 
routine of the trade in the autumn." (6) 

709 - H Nov. 4; ed:2/l - A gentleman who has recently been on the wing in 
various sections of the State, informs us that the young wheat is up finely 
and never looked better, and that the quantity of ground put in is unusually 
large. The general drouth gave fanners plenty of time to prepare lands for 
fall sowing, and the opportunity seems to have been well improved. (2) 

See also Hay &amp; Feed 



117

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 710 - 715 

PLACEHOLDER

GREAT BRITAIN 

710 - H Nov. 8; ed:2/l - The CALEDONIA arrived nt Boston on Nov. 31, 
with the news that the exp )rt tra e of grain and brea^stuffs from this 
country to England is very favorable, f illowing unfavorable weather and 
poor English harvests. 

There was other ^ews, the mist important of which was the Puseyite 
abstra t^on. The thin line of division which had been supposed to exist 
between the tractor ians and the Catholics has been severed, and Newman 
and his followers have deserted the church of England for the church of 
Rome. 

"Whether the church from which they hive seceded will now experience 
peace in her bosom, rent and torn as she has been so long by jars and 
discord, is by no means certain. The Puseyite, or rather the Newmonite 
feeling, is not confined to Oxford - the sister university of Cambridge 
is more or less tainted with it." (4) 

GREENHOUSES &amp; NURSERIES 

711 ■ H July 1; adv:l/2 - James Houghton, Agent Cleveland City Seed 
Store, Green House, and Nursery, Superior st., east side of the public 
square. (verbatim) (1) 

712 - H July 1; adv:4/l - Mcintosh &amp; Co., with greenhouse aid nursery 
at St. Clair st., Cleveland, offer for sale a very large assortment of 
fruit trees, ornamental shrubs, and greenhouse and herb^^ceous plants. 

Apple trees, 80 choice varieties, Cherry trees, 30 varieties. (4) 

713 - H Sept. 26; adv:2/5 - McI itosh &amp; Co. offer for sale: Trees, 
Schrubs an i Plants, at reduced prices. Also, all kinds of fruit Trees. 

Descriptive catalogaes to be had gratis on application to the propri- 
etors. 

The nurseries anJ green house are situated (n St. Clair st., within 
a half mile nf the court house, and a-e open for the reception of visi- 
tors at all times. (3) 

714 - H Nov. 8; adv:3/4 • Fruit &amp; Ornamental Trees, At Cable's Nursery. 
On the Pittsburgh road, 2-1/2 miles from Cleveland, is offered a good as- 
sortment of Apple, Peach, Pear, Cherry, PI ,m, etc, trees. Also Balsam 

of Fir, Silver Leaf, Locust, Willow, etc., E. Cable. (I) 

GROCERIES &amp; GROCERS 

715 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - Fred'k Wm. Weiss, dealer in groceries, dry 
goods, etc., No. 28, on the dock, informs his friends, customers, and the 
public respectfully that he las l.itely received from the east the following 
Goods, which he offers for sale at low prices for Cash. Groceries: 

Rio, Cuba, and St. Domingo coffee, Porto Rico, Muscavado, New Orleans, 
White &amp; Brown Havanna, etc.. Oils; Tanner?, refined, sperm, etc.. Wines; 
Port, Sweet and dry Malaga etc.. Tobacco; chewing and smoking. New ''•' 

York and Philadelphia Scotch snuff; Drugs, Dyes and Paints; glue. 



118

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 716 • 724 

GROCERIES &amp; GROCERS (Cont'd) 

Epsom salts, spirits of turpentine etc., Sundries, lead, Saleratus, red - 

cords, shot, pails, brushes, etc., Leather; five tons sole leather, etc., 

Ship Chandlery; pitch, tar, rosin, lanterns, signal halyards, etc., 

Pork; mess and prime; London Porter, quarts and pints. (4) 

716 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/2 • Family Groceries at A. D. Cutter's may be 
purchased very low. Imperial Tea, Old Hyson Tea, Young Hyson Tea, Loaf 
Sugar, Crushed Sugar, P. R. Sugar, Brown Sugar, Superior Rio Coffee, 
Pepper, Spice &amp; Nutmegs, Cinnamon and Cloves, Madder and Indigo, Rice, 
Raisins, Snuff, &amp; etc. (2) 

717 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l • John Crangle, Roy T. Bailey; Crangle and 
Bailey, Wheeling. Bailey &amp; Co., Pittsburgh. 

Crangle, Bailey &amp; Co. Wholesale Groceries and Commission Merchants, 
Corner of Merwin street and Superior lane Cleveland, Ohio. (verbatim) 

(1) 

718 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - E. Bingham &amp; co., Dealers in Dry Groceries, 
Flour, Oil, Salt, Produce &amp;c. &amp;c., Hancock Block, 95 Superior st. (1) 

719 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/5 - At Wholesale Or Retail. Fresh Groceries. 
Just received at No. 21 River Street. 

Most kinds of country produce will be taken in exchange for goods; and 
advances in cash, will be made on property consigned to us for sale. 
C. Bradburn &amp; Co. (2) 

720 - H Apr. 23; adv:2/4 - Removal. J. H. Phillips will remove the 
1st of May to the stand formerly occupied by Jas. H. Kelley, No. 48 
American House, where he will be happy to see all his old friends and 
customers. (verbatim) (1) 

721 - H July 1; adv:3/6 - We Rise Brighter, And Sell Cheaper Than Ever. 
David Clarke would inform his numerous friends, customers, &amp;c., that he 
has built up his new store on the ashes of the one burnt down, where he 
will sell them Groceries, Produce, &amp;c., cheap as ever, and a good deal 
cheaper. No. 31 Seneca-st., opposite the City Hotel. 

Wanted - any quantity of Oats, Corn, Butter, Lard, Cheese, Eggs, Apples, 
Hams, &amp;c. ' (1) 

722 - H July 1; adv: 1/5 - Fleming &amp; Babcock, No. 6 Merwin st., opposite 
the Custom House, For sale, just received; 10 bags old Government Java 
Coffee, 20 bbls. N.O. Sugar, 20 Boxes bunch Raisins, 10 Bbls. No. 1 
Mackerel, 10 bbls. Tanner's Oil, 20 bbls. Turpentine, 10 bbls. Ground 

and Cut Longwood, 50-1/2 Chests Y. H. Tea, etc. (3) 

723 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - W. J. Gordon, Wholesale Grocer and Commission 
Merchant, 25 River street, on the Wharf. (1) 

724 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - J. Holt, Dealer in Dry Groceries, Ship Chandlery, 
Beef, Pork, Flour, Fish, Salt, &amp;c. &amp;c., on the Dock, foot of Light House 
street. (1) 



119

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 725 • "^ 

GROCERIES &amp; GROCERS (Cont'd) 

725 - H Sept. 18; adv:2/5 - Mollasses - 8 hhds. and 7 tierces Porto Rico 

Molasses just rec'd and for sale cheap by W. J. Gordon. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Retail Stores &amp; Trade 



120

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TQ DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 726 - 737 

PLACEHOLDER

HARDWARE

726 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 • Tin, Sheet Iron, Copper and Wire, Now Receiving 
100 Boxes Tin Plate, superior quality, 5 ton Sheet Iron; 1 ton Copper 
sheet tinned and untinned. A full assortment of Wire, all at very low 
prices at J. T. Kirkland &amp; Co's., sign of Saws, 3d store above Cutter's. 
Auction Room. (1) 

727 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - C. Whitaker &amp; Co. Dealers in Stoves, Copper, 
Tin and Sheet Iron Ware, No. 17 Superior lane. (1) 

728 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - W. Bingham &amp; Co., Wholesale and retail Dealers 
in HarJware, Iron, Nails, Saddlery, etc., opposite the American House. 

(1) 

729 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Fancy and common Bellows • For Sale by J. B. 
Stafford. (1) 

730 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - H. Moore &amp; Co., Wholesale and Retail dealers 
in Hardware, Files, Cutlery, &amp;c. Agents for Newton Darling's Warranted 
Grass and Corn Scythes, • Store corner of Superior and Union Lanes. (1) 

731 - H Jan. 3; adv: 3/6 - Now opening a lot of Goods slightly damaged in 
the late gale at Buffalo; comprising 150 doz. Norfolk Latches; 60 doz. 
Knives and Forks; 200 gross Screws; and a considerable quantity of join- 
er's Tools, Files, &amp;c. H. Moore &amp; Co., corner of Superior and Union lane. 

(1) 

732 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Clark &amp; Murfey, Wholesale &amp; Retail dealers in 
Hardware, Iron, Nails, Stoves, etc., sign of the Anchor, Superior street. 

(1) 

733 - H Jan. 8; adv:2/4 - Removal. W. Bingham &amp; Co., have removed their 
stock cf Hardsrare (for the present) four doors west of H. &amp; E. Gaylord's, 
and directly opposite Sanford &amp; Hayward's, where they intend to keep a 
large stock of goods and sell at low prices. (1) 

734 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - J. T. Kirtland &amp; Co., Dealers in Hardware of 
every description, Hollow Ware, Iron, Saddlery, Nails, Glass, Stoves, &amp;c., 
sign of the Mill Saw, 3d door above 0. Cutter's auction store, Superior 
street. (1) 

735 • H July 2; adv: 3/3 - Notice • The co-partnership heretofore existing 
between the subscribers is this day dissolved by mutual consent. J. T. 
Kirkland, J. F. Kirkland. June 23, 1845. (verbatim) (1) 

736 - H July 3; adv: 2/6 - Cannon Powder 

50 kegs just rec'd by 

H. &amp; E. Gaylord. (1) 

737 - H Sept. 19; adv: 2/4 - Hardware at Wholesale. The subscriber con- 
templating different arrangements in business, has a good assortment of 
staple, saleable Shelf Hardware, which he will sell for Cash cheaper than 
any house west of Albany. Merchants desirous of replenishing small stocks 
please call and examine. J. T. Kirkland. 



121

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 738 • 743 v^ ■ 

HARDWARE (Cont'd) 

Medina WHIG, Wooster DEMOCRAT, Toledo BLADE, Detroit ADVERTISER 
and Fort Wayne SENTINEL, publish to amount of $1 each, and charge this 
office. (verbatim) (1) 

738 • H Oct. 1; adv:2/5 - Guns - On hand, a large and splendid stock of 
single and double barrel shot Guns, Stubs Twisted, Damascus twist and 
wire twist, at N. E. Crittenden's, next door east of the Franklin House. 

(1) 

739 - H Oct. 13; adv:2/5 - Consignment of Hardware - Hardware dealers 
will find it to their advantage to call and examine a consignment of hard- 
ware just received from New York, for sale for Cash or approved paper. 
Barber &amp; Girly. Merwin st. and dock. (1) 

740 - H Dec. 17; adv:2/5 - Removed. W. Bingham &amp; Co. have removed their 
Hardware, &amp;c. to the west store, in Johnson's Block, directly opposite 

the American House. (1) 

See also Retail Stores &amp; Trade 

HAY &amp; FEED 

741 • H Aug. 1:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, Rutland says: In Cleve- 
land and vicinity there are some 1,000 horses and a like number of cows. 
Feed for these animals, between pasturing, runs up to $54,000 annually, 
and many farmers are complaining that they must sell their cattle because 
of a lack of hay and other feed. Now, in the southern part of the state, 
corn is raised plentifully and can be purchased at one shilling per bushel. 

"Now is there not some enterprising Yankee who will transport a 
quantity of that corn to this market, and let it be here used to sustain 
the horses and cattle of our citizens, instead of having it made into 
whiskey where it is? Would not this be a profitable investment and a 
public blessing?" (4) 

742 - H Aug. 7; adv:2/5 - Hay Afloat. 10 Tons of superior quality, 
pressed in bundles of about 300 lbs., very convenient for those having 
saall barns, for sale by H. A. Smith. (1) 

743 - H Aug. 8:2/1,2 ■ In a letter to the editor. M. B. Bateham, editor 
of the OHIO CULTIVATOR, says: "The failure of the hay crop on a large 
portion of the Reserve has naturally caused much anxiety in the minds of 
the farmers of this region, as to the best measures to be adopted to save 
their cattle from suffering and starvation the coming winter. All are 
agreed that there will not be sufficient provender to supply one quarter 

of the present amount of stock in this region, and as only a small por- ^ 

tion can be sold off, some provision must be trade for their support.... 

"What... is to be done? My answer is, Send your cattle into the central 
and southern pTrtions of our own state - where there is food enough and 
to spare 



122

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 744 - 745 

HAY &amp; FEED (Cont'd) 

"I am not able at present to state definitely what will be the expense 
of wintering cattle in the great corn valley of this State, but I have 
no doubt that thousands of acres of standing corn can be purchased at $8 
or $10 per acre.... My plan would be to send or go immediately into 
those parts and make contracts either for the wintering of the animals at 
a set price per head, or for the purchase of cornfields and strawheaps or 
pasturage. The best places will of course be where remote from the 
principal markets; and the most corn will be found in the vicinities of 
rivers and streams." (13) 

744 - H Aug. 18:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Western Reserve Man" 
says: "In an article written by the Editor of the OHIO CULTIVATOR. ..a 
week since, he says; 'AH are agreed that there will not be sufficient 
provender to supplv one quarter of the present amount of stock in this 
region.' Now, Mr, Bateham with his 'all' who 'are agreed' could not ^ 
surely have taken into thought the economy that may be practiced in feed- 
ing to cattle, straw, stalks, etc., nor could they have judged the farmer 
capable of more than usual economy in saving everything upon his lands 
that will answer as feed, when they came to this agreement. The writer 
will admit that the haycrop is very much less than an average, but it is 
not yet ready to admit it will be policy to adopt the plan of driving 

cattle to the South of the State for wintering One. . .objection to 

senling cattle South. With all, the difference of a yard and stables for 
protection, as compared with a cirnfield and mud half a foot deep, will 
be of considerable import as regards their returning in the spring in 
gjod condition, but with cows and any other cattle that have been accus- 
tomed to more or less stabliig and care, the difference in their condition, 
when kept as they neeJs must be if drove South, will be such as to lessen 
their value one half. And beside with cows that are to come in during 
the latter part of February or month of March, it will be found almost im- 
possible to get them back in consequence of the road. Although it is 
desirable that our cattle be cared for, yet I would that those who own 
tbem should first look at the whole matter before they advance money to 
unknown persons for their keep, or club together and send our cattle away 
from their accustomed pastures." (16) 

745 - H Aug. 30:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, M. B. Bateham, editor of 
The OHIO CULTIVATOR, says: In the HERALD of Aug. 8 I advised your 
Reserve farmers to send their cattle to central and southwestern portions 

of the state for wintering. Since that time I have received letters and ad- 
vices which convince me the plan is more than feasible. Contracts can be 
made for wintering thousands of cattle in the Scioto valley on corn fodder, 
for 37 cents each head per month, an average cost of two dollars for each 
animal through the winter. The corn crop in that part of Ohio is more 
than plentiful, and not one-tenth of it will be used up if cattle are not 
sent there from up-state. 

In answer to the uninformed and ignorant remarks of "A n'estern Reserve 
Man" published in the HERALD of Aug. 18, in which he advises against my 



123

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 746 - 750 " "' " ' ' •-''''■"■•■• 

HAY &amp; FEED (Cont'd) ' ' ' ' '" ' ' 

plan, I must bay I have neither cattle nor farms down state and thus have 
no personal benefit in view from any such plan as I have advised. But, 
keeping the cattle at home and feeding them, as "A Western Reserve Man" 
recommends, is perfectly preposterous. There is not enough feed here, 
and its purchase would be far too expensive. "If any one doubts this, 
let him go and ask the farmers of those counties, (Cuyahoga, Geauga, 
Summit, etc.) and see what their answer will be." (11) 

746 - H Sept. 22; adv;2/6 - Wintering for 4,000 head of cattle and horses 
can be had at the farm of Hiram Brooks, Brunswick, Medina county. 

Young cattle, 2 years old and past, full fed on salted hay, at $4 per 
head for the winter. Cows @ $5. Cows and oxen, on hay and still slop, 
$5. Horses at prices of from $6 to $10. The prices above quoted will 
take care of everything, from the driving of the animals to Brooks' farm, 
to returning them in the Spring. Stock will be received from all points 
on the Reserve and returned agaia in good shape. Each head must have an 
indelible mark. Enquire of H. Moore &amp; Co., Cleveland, Ohio. (4) 

747 - H Oct. 8; adv:3/3,4 - Rich's Patent Straw Cutter! The subscribers 
have pleasure in announcing to farmers who have large stocks of cattle to 
feed, that they have just received the Rich Straw Cutter, pronounced oer- 
fect at the State Agricultural Fair in Utica, N. Y. and will sell it for 
$12. The machine is made in Cleveland. Cleveland Seed Store. (8) 

748 - H Nov. 13; adv:2/4 - N. B. - Mr. Oviatt takes this method to inform 
Cleveland citizens that ae will be in the city, Nov. 17, to engage winter- 
ing quarters for cows, on tame hay. Terms - $6 per head, payable half 
now, and half when the animals are delivered back to the owners on May 1 
next. Enquire at the store of Mervin Clark, 11 Superior lane. (1) 

HEMP &amp; JUTE 

749 - H Aug. 6; ed:2/l - Hemp For The Navy. It is gratifying to see that 
the Government is at last taking steps to encourage the growth of Hemp in 
the West, by purchasing American water rotted for use of the Navy. Tests 
applied show that American is stronger and better than imported, and the 
Louisville JOURNAL supposes from 700 to 1,000 tons will be purchased in 
the West, mostly in Kentucky and Missouri, for the United States Navy. 
The JDURNAL says the demand for the merchant service is constantly in- 
creasing, (verbatim) (2) 

HIDES &amp; SKINS 

750 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/4 - 50,000 Sheep Pelts wanted at the "Cleveland 
Morocco Factory," Covered Bridge, for which the highest price will be ''_ 
paid in Cash, notwithstanding the report of ct'jrtain individuals that we " 
have stopped buying: but being in the belief that some things can be done - 
at home as well as others, all pelts bought by this establishment are \^ 
manufactured into Sheep, but not Goat Skins, Morocco, such as Dressed 

and Oil Dressed Black Morocco, Coach Roans, Hat Linings &amp;c. - C. Terrill. 

(2) 



124

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 751 - 755 

HIDES &amp; SKINS (Cont'd) 

751 - H July 1; adv:l/2 - Wm. B. Barber, General Agent, and dealer in 
Wool, Sheep Pelts, Morocco Leather, etc. Liberal advances made on Wool 
to be sold in this or any of the Eastern markets. - Place of business at 
the warehouse of Jonas Stafford &amp; Co., near the canal bridge. Highest 
market price paid for wool and Sheep Pelts. (1) 

752 - H Sept. 19; adv:2/4 - Cash For Green Hides will be paid on applica- 
tion to Alex'r Seymour &amp; Co., on the River. (1) 

See also Leather &amp; Tanning Industry ' , - . 

HISTORY &amp; HISTORIANS 

H Jan. 22; ed:3/l - See Newspapers ^ 

753 - H July 12; ed:2/l - We have been empowered to receive, for the pur- 
pose of forwarding to the Cincinnati Historical society, books, pamphlets, 
and manuscripts en the history of America, and particularly the west. 

This society proposes to collect the remaining vestiges of our early 
history for the future, and it asks the assistance of the citizens of 
the west in this endeavor. 

"We see by the list of the officers that they are men devoted to the 
cause of Western History, now so meagre, but always of intense interest. 
It is interesting to study the character of Darius and Pyrrbus, of Aris- 
totle and Alexander; but it is equally interesting, although not yet so 
fashionable, to peruse the lives of De Soto and La Salle, of Pontiac or 
Red Jacket." (8) 

754 - H Dec. 11; ed:3/2 - "Cleveland, Ohio, Western Reserve, etc." by 
John Barr, Esq., is the title of a long and able article of 25 pages in 
the December issue of THE NATIONAL MAGAZINE, published in New York. 
This article is written in a concise and happy style. The citizens of 
Cleveland, the Reserve, and northern Ohio are under many obligations to 
the author for the industry and labor expended in rescuing from oblivion 
the interesting history of this section of Ohio. 

We advise every one to read Barr's article. "This one article is 
worth a years' subscription to the magazine, and should be in the hands 
of every Buckeye, whether 'to the manor born,' or an adopted son of Ohio." 

(13) 
HOLIDAYS 

755 - H Jan. 3; ed:3/l - We learn that many of our quiet and good citizens 
were greatly annoyed on the night of Dec. 31 by the firing, noises, and 
calithumpian serenades of the Germans and boys in the streets, and the 
wish is generally expressed that similar scenes may not be repeated. We 
trust our German citizens will recollect that the customs of the people 

of the land of their adoption are entirely different to the carnivals of 
the Fatherland. 

"Parents and guardians can prevent the annoying rowdyism of boys in 
the streets at night, if they choose to do so." (3) 



125

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 756 - 760 

HOLIDAYS (Cont'd)

756 - H Mar. 24:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Vindex" says: The 
churches throughout the United States have fallen into a very singular '' 
and important error in the celebration of the important moveable feast 

of Easter. By the error of oversight, it makes Easter fall upon a Sun- 
day one week previous to its actual occurrence. If the reader will turn "• 
to the rubric and read under the head of "Rules to know when the Move- 
able Feasts and Holy Days begin," he will find the following note: 
"Easter day, on which the rest depend, is always the first Sunday after 
the full moon which happens upon or next after the twenty-first day of 
March; and if the full moon happens upon a Sunday, Easter Day is the 
Sunday after." (4)

757 - H Mar. 25:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "H" says: "Vindex" has 
too hastily charged the church with pre-observing the important festival 
of Easter. An elaborate discussion of the question, whether Easter day 
should be the 23d day of March or the 30th, has appeared in England from 
the pen of Professor De Morgan of Cambridge University, and it was deter- 
mined for the day on which the church has celebrated it. 

I trust "Vindex" will be satisfied that the church is right, accord- 
ing to the rubric, in the celebration of this day, the rubric contem- 
plating the Paschal, not the real full moon. (7) 

758 • H July 1; adv:2/4 - The Fourth of July Celebration will begin with 
13 Guns at Sunrise. At 10 o'clock a procession will leave the Public 
Square and will march to the Second Presbyterian Church where an address 
will be delivered by Geo. Willey, Esq., after which the procession will 
move to a Public Dinner in the Grove, corner of Erie and Lake sts. 

In the Evening a grand display of Fire Works will be given on the Pub- 
lic Square. A. S, Sanford, is Marshal, assisted by W. E. Lawrence, James 
Barnett, J. J. Vinall and various committees. (5) 

759 - H July 2; ed:3/2 - Too much care cannot be exercised in the use of 
powder in celebrating the Fourth of July. Every year furnishes a melan- 
choly list of accidents and deaths succeeding the Fourth and mainly from 
the use of gunpowder in celebrating Independence day. Two lads were 
nearly killed in Rochester on June 28 by the explosion of several pounds 
of old powder their parents had kept in the house for years. The powder 
had caked, and the lads took it into the yard for the purpose of breaking 
off some to be used for the Fourth of July, and the youngest thoughtlessly 
applied a brand to it, causing the whole lot to explode. 

"Take care of the powder." (3) 

760 - H July 3; ed:2/l - Again we greet the return of our nation's natal 
day, the Fourth of July. Sacred to every American's heart is this day ' '. 
when a handful of fearless men came forward and signed the Declaration 

of Independence, the great and eternal principle of right. 

"And we believe that these principles are destined, in process of time, 
to triumph over all the political errors of mankind, and to redeem crushed 
and downtrodden humanity from its degradation and chains." 



126

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 761 - 763 

HOLIDAYS (Cont'd) 

Let any one who doubts the capacity of men to govern themselves and 
secure their own prosperity and happiness, tour the American continent 
and mark the mighty results of the labors of the past half century - 
The blooming, fruitful fields where wilderness reigned, facilities for 
locomotion which were but romantic dreams in the past, inventions which 
have sprung from American minds. 

"We are sometimes accused of a desire to trumpet our own fame, and to 
see praise in nothing that is not American. Those who thus speak do not 
realize our true position. - We have less cause for indulging in a narrow 
national pride than any other people on the globe. But we have cause to 
show to the world that the foundation of our government has been laid in 
the immutable laws of truth and justice, and, so far as they are consis- 
tently caried out, that they produce the most happy results.... It is not 
because we are Americans that we should speak enthusiasticaly of all our 
prosperity, but because the cause of equal rights has here proved trium- 
phant." (12) 

761 • II July 3:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "B." says: As the Fourth 
of July nears, I am reminded of an anecdote that occurred in this city 

on July 4, 1836. I met an Irishman t'len who was pretty well corned up, 
and asking about his drunken state, I received the following answer: 
"General Jackson is a fime mon indade! Do you know what he has been 
doirg for us Irish paple? He has just knocked the 4th of July and the 
17th of March into one, so that you Yankees and we Irish can all git 
drunk togither." (3) 

762 - H July 3; adv:2/4 - The Fourth of July Parade, headed by A. S. 
Sanford, marshal will assemble at the Square tomorrow at 9-1/2 o'clock 
a.m. (sic) in the following order: Marshal of the day; artillery squad; 
Cleveland Brass Band; German City Guards; Hook and Ladder Co. No. 1; 
Eagle Engine Co. No. 1; Neptune Engine Co. No. 2; Phoenix Engine Co. 
No. 4; Cataract Engine Co. No. 5; Hope Hose Engine Co. No. 1; Washing- 
ton Engine Co. No. 1 (of Ohio City); Fire Wardens; Revolution War vet- 
erans and soldiers of the last war; Common Council; Mayor and Aldermen; 
President and Vice President; Clergymen; Orator and Preacher; Citizens 
and Strangers, 

There will be 13 guns at sunrise. At 10 a.m. the line will march 
thus: Superior to Water, to St. Clair, to Wood, to Erie, to Prospect, 
to Ontario, to Lake, to Bank, to Superior, to the Second Presbyterian 
Church where Geo. Willey, Esq., will speak. Public dinner will be had 
at the Grove, corner Erie and Lake sts. Fire Works will be displayed 
at the Square in the evening. (6) 

763 - H July 3; adv:2/7 - Order of celebrntion of "the 4th" at J. H. 
Kelley's store, No 78, opposite Bank st: 

At ten o'clock the procession will form under command of General 
French Cloths, with Colonel Bleached Sheetings and Major Irish Linens 
assisting. 

Instead of Refreshments, all kinds of Dry Goods will be served up at 
short notice and upon reasonable terms. Two bands of music will be in 



127

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 764 - 765 

HOLIDAYS (Cont'd)

attendance, and the Fire Department will give a cold shower immediately 
in front of the store at 11 a.m. 

In the evening, the "Empire Buildings" will be set afire for the i=&gt; 

children's amusement, but will be put out before the blaze reaches the 
store. Front seats reserved for ladies. J. H. Kelley will be grand 
marshal. (6) 

764 - H July 3:3/1 - The weather gives goodly promise for the morrow, and 
the celebration got up by our spirited fire department will be worthy of 
the day, a celebration in which we trust our citizens will generally join. 
The procession will merit and attract much attention, and a rich mental 
feast may be expected from the eloquent young orator of the day, George 
Willey, Esq. A dinner table will be bountifully spread by Wells, in the 
beautiful grove at the corner of Erie and Lake sts. Fire works, and 
balloon ascensions in the evening will close the celebration of the national 
gala day. ■ (2) 

765 - H Jily 5:3/1,2 - The Fourth of July was a glorious day. Country 
folk and strangers mingled with local citizens to commemorate the birth 
of a nation, and spectators on the sidelines felt an irrepressible urge 
to join in with the marching companies of paraders, stepping to martial 
tunes which saw our revolutionary fathers march to victory. At dawn. 
Captain Wood's light artillery greeted the day with a national salute, 
and at ten a.m. the paraders formed in the order enumerated in this paper 
on July 3, under the leadership of Chief Marshal Sanford. Prominent in 
the parade was a live American eagle perched nobly on the glittering "war* 
dog" of the light artillery. Noble in appearance also, was the company 

of 301 local firemen, comprising the various engine companies, and the '•■' 
German guards, military in bearing and the center of admiration, the public 
debut of our German adopted citizens. 

After the parade, the populace crowded into the Second Presbyterian 
church to hear Bingham's choir, the reading of the Declaration of Indepen- 
dence by C. L. Russell, Esq., and the oration of the day, delivered by 
George Willey, Esq. 

As this Fourth of July celebration was mainly the result of the patriot- 
ism of the fire department, Mr. Willey traced briefly the history of this 
noble safeguard of our city. The earliest records, Willey said, show that 
the department was organized in 1832 at a public meeting at the home of 
Philo Scoville, Esq. The first rude engine, named "Cataract" refused to 
throw a proper stream of water and its cognomen was soon changed to "Grind- 
stone." The department grew steadily until now it is fit to battle the 
fiery foe. 

The Reverend Waldron pronounced the benediction. 

The meal at the grove was partaken of by a host of citizens. Mayor 
Starkweather presided, with Mr. Turner as his aide. Toasts were drunk in 
ice water to: The day we celebrate; the President of the United States; 
the governor of Ohio; the union of the states - it must be preserved; the ^'^ 
flag; and the people; and numerous other volunteer toasts. A special ''^^ 

tribute was paid to the only revolutionary war veteran in the crowd, 



128

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 766 - 768 - 

HOLIDAYS Cont'd) 

Moses Warren, 85, of Warrensville, who fought the British in the company of 
the Massachusetts state troops. He was referred to as "the surviving hero 
of the Revolution." 

In the evening the city presented a carnival appearance. The Public 
Square and vicinity was alive with people - bonfires blazed - rockets and 
fiery serpents shot into the air - fire crackers rattled like mimic mus- 
ketry ■ and a fine balloon ascension closed the pleasing exhibition of 
pyrotechnics. Thus ended the celebration of the 69th anniversary of 
American Independence. (38) 

766 - H Nov. 11; ed:3/l • The season of Thanksgiving draws near, with 
various states celebrating this good old Pilgrim festival on several 
different days: Ohio and Kentucky, Nov, 20; Maryland, Nov. 21; Pennsyl- 
vania, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, and New 
Jersey, Nov. 27; Vermont and Maine, Dec. 4; and New York, Dec. 7. 

"Thus it will be seen that in nearly half the States of the Union this 
good old custom of the Pilgrims will be honored. Why could not all be 
persuaded to unite in its observance on the same day?" (2) 

767 - H Nov. 19; ed:3/l,2 - Thanksgiving! There is no word in the lan- 
guage of the old Pilgrims which carries a sweeter charm to the hearts of 
their sons and daughters, however scattered abroad, than this. It is in 
truth a New England festival and we rejoice that its leaven so abideth in 
the hearts of the governors of the several states as to induce a proclama- 
tion for its annual observance by all the people. In our state, tomorrow 
will be the day of Thanksgiving. 

The sun shines upon a heritage the inhabitants of the state have abun- 
dant cause to be thankful for. In the days of a generation, the savage 
wilderness has been transformed into an empire of civilization, education, 
and religion. Industry has subdued the primeval forests, and so filled 
our granaries that the millions of the old world are now fed from the 
super-abundance of the new world. Health, peace, prosperity have marked 
the year. 

"There are other days, conspicuous in the calendar, the observance of 
which, as commemorating some great event in our history, appeals to our 
patriotism and national pride. But this is a festival of a religious, 
rather than of a political or secular character, and as such appeals 
directly to the better feelings of our nature." 

It is a time when one had best be at home, to seek communion and fellow- 
ship, giving thanks with those around whom tendrils of love have been en- 
twined, and whom ties of kindred affection have in other years made the 
sharers of joys and sorrows. (26) 

768 - H Dec. 24; ed:2/3 - What a multitude of little stockings will be 
suspended tonight, and how the eyes of the almost sleepless expectants 
will sparkle with delight when the stockings are examined in the morning. 
Such a row, such a merry-making. No wonder the good St. Nicholas is 
punctual in his visit. 

"Our advertising columns show where he obtains such a bountiful supply 
for distribution in this city." (2) 



129

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 769 - 773 

HOLIDAYS (Cont'd) 

769 - H Dec. 24; ed;2/3 - Merry Christmas! - To our numerous readers and 
friends, we cordiallv tender the compliments of the season. (verbatim) 

(1) 

770 - H Dec. 31; ed:3/l - "A Happy New Year to you, kind reader • to 
you, indulgent, yet ever watchful father, steady and firm of purpose in all 
your duties - to you, gentle and confiding mother, whose affection is the 
sunshine of the household - to you, ingenuous and impulsive brother, 
whose future career will bring joy and gladness in its train to the hoary 
age of parents - to you, affectionate, ever joyful and cheering sister - 

a happy New Year to you, one and all." 

You who have wives, think of them and be joyous with them before death 
takes them away. "To such let your gifts be liberal, for all are but 
almoners of the great donor, and even a word spoken in kindness when the 
heart is bowed down by calamity, dwells with unfading brightness amidst 
their desolation." (10) 

See also Anniversaries 

HOMICIDES. See Capital Punishment; Crime &amp; Criminals 

HORTICULTURE 

771 - H Jan. 16:3/2 - The members of the Cleveland Horticultural society 
held a raeetinij yesterday. J. P. Kirkland presided. A present of a vol- 
ume of Linlley's PRINCIPLES OF HORTICULTURE was made by CM. 
Giddings, and a volume of Kenwick's AMERICAN ORCHARDIST, was donated 
by President Kirkland. The president stated that he had received a peti- 
tion to the legislature of Ohio for the enactment of laws for the preserva- 
tion of fruits. After some discussion, it was resolved that the president 
and secretary, F. R. Elliott, draft a petition and sign it in behalf of the 
societv, praying for the enactment of laws making the theft of fruits etc. 
criminal offenses. 

In the absence of the treasurer, T. C. Severance was appointed trea- 
surer, pro tem. E. Cable presented several specimens of fruits and the 
president exhibited a very fine lemon grown by C. M. Giddings. The meet- 
ing then adjourned until February. (15) 

772 - H Feb. 17:2/4 - The regular meeting of members of the Cleveland 
Horticultural society, will be held at the room of Professor Kirkland, 

in the Medical College, on Wednesday, the 19th inst. at 2 p.m. (verbatim) 

(1) 

773 - H Feb. 20:3/2 - The regular monthly meeting of the Cleveland Horti- 
cultural society was held on Feb. 19 at the room of Professor Kirkland. 

The meeting was well attended. Seeds and grafts from various donors 
were distributed to be grown for the benefit of the society. Scions of 
Pryor's late red apple were ordered distributed. Fine specimens of fruits 
and vegetables were exhibited and sold for the benefit of the society. 

A resolution was passed to support a work devoted to the dissemination 
of information on agriculture and horticulture to be published by M. C. 
Younglove and F. R. Elliott. 



130

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 774 - 778 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd) 

The thanks of the members was tendered to Dr. S. L. Hildreth of 
Marietta, for grafts and seeds received from him. 

The meeting was then adjourned until Mar. 19. (12) 

774 • n Mar. 20:3/1 - Yesterday the regular monthly meeting of the Cleve- 
land Horticulture society was held but owing to the severity of the 
weather, there were but few in attendance. Some fine specimens of fruit 
were exhibited - also specimens of rhubarb and asparagus. Some fine 
currant jelly was sold for the benefit of the society. (7) 

775 - H Mar. 28; ed:3/l - "The attention very many of our citizens and 
our adjacent country friends are bestowing upon the cultivation of choice 
shrubs, flowers and fruits, is not only creditable to their taste but is 
full of promise of a thousand fold return to all who thus ornament and 
improve their grounds." 

The first number of Messrs. Mcintosh &amp; Co's. PERIODICAL CATALOGUE 
has been publised, and the long and well selected list of fruit and ornamen- 
tal trees, flowering shrubs and roses, herbaceous and greenhouse plants is 
well worth the attention of purchasers. (4) 

776 - H May 10:3/2 - The Cleveland Horticultural society held its regular 
monthly meeting on Apr. 6. The vice president, H. H. Coit, Esq., called 
the meeting to order. 

E. Cable, exhibited fine specimens of the seedling described in the 
last issue of the Western Reserve Horticultural magazine. 

The society adjourned to May 21. 

From present appearances, there is not likely to be a great quantity 
of fruit this season. We shall have less fruit, but probably there will 
be an abundance of vegetables, many of them new and rare varieties. The 
cultivation of flowers is also greatly increasing and will doubtless add 
greatly to the interest of the meetings. (8) 

777 - H May 13; ed:2/l,2 - Those who have never used bell glasses to 
assist the germination of their seeds or the successful result of trans- 
planting tender annuals, can hardly imagine the immense advantage which 
their use affords. 

But four days are required from sowing the seed to have the plant up 
and with its third leaf formed. 

"Every private gardener should have them and public market gardeners 
we doubt not would find them profitable." (3) 

778 - H May 24:2/2 - The regular monthly meeting of the horticultural 
society was held at the society's rooms on Wednesday, May 21, at two 
p.m. 

A free conversation was conducted by the members present, on the sub- 
jects of frost, cut worms, etc. 

Seedling potatoes from the blue Bilbo were presented by Thomas Mcllrath, 
of Euclid. They were fine looking tubers. 

Many varieties of fruits and flower were exhibited, and seeds and scions 
were distributed. (7) 



131

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 779 - 782 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd) 

779 - H May 28:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Amateur" says: Permit 
me to call the attention of your readers to the advantages to be derived 
from the Cleveland Horticultural society. The first question will 
probably be, what is the unusually important matter that should bring 
this' society now to our notice? I answer, the yearly election of officers. 

It is well known that most of the works on agriculture and horticulture 
are so expensively got up, as to be beyond the command of the man of small 
means; this, through the medium of the Cleveland Horticultural society has 
been in a great measure obviated, as the funds of the society have been 
expended in procuring books, forming a library open to the wants of every 
member. 

"Having said this much, let me urge upon every one, attention to the 
valuable claims which this Society maintains for the advancement of a cor- 
rect tone of society, and as at the next meeting, it is presumed each 
officer will make report for the year, let there be a general attendance 
of our citizens, with a disposition to join, hand in hand, with energy 
to its continued success." (11) 

780 - H June 10:2/1 - On June 7 the members of the Cleveland Horticultural 
society held a meeting and elected the following officers for the coming 
year: President, Prof. J. P. Kirkland; vice presidents, George B. Merwin 
and George C. Dodge, Esq.; secretary, George B. Benedict, Esq., treasurer, 
H. F. Brayton, Esq. 

Fruit of all kinds were exhibited after the voting. 

We are also requested to state, for the convenience of those who desire 
to send fruits or flowers, that J. Stair and Son have the key of the room, 
and will be happy to attend upon those who wish it during the morning 
hours of the days of the exhibition which is to be held shortly. (14) 

781 - H June 20:3/1 - Tomorrow afternoon will be the regular meeting of 
the Horticultural society at its rooms on Superior st. 

Here meet scientific horticultural ists, amateurs, and those who love 
fruit for the stomach's sake; and an afternoon in each week or fortnight 
cannot be passed more profitably to old and young of both sexes, than in 
attending the exhibitions of this society. (3) 

782 - H June 24; ed:3/l - The regular meeting of the Horticultural society 
was held on June 21. 

"The exhibition was well attended, and the show of fruits and flowers 
much better than was attempted (sic) still the lack of interest manifested 
by the 'older settlers' who have fine gardens in the city, is, to say the 
least of it, surprising. From their abundance they might make these ex- 
hibitions much more interesting, and the sales much more profitable to the 
Society. Look at the reports, and to the mortification of our citizens it 
will be seen that the contributors from beyond the city limits exceed those 
within." 

Mrs. Merwin of Rockport presented a beautiful bouquet, containing some 
15 varieties of rare and elegant roses, and 20 varieties of other choice 
flowers. 



132

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 783 - 786 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd) 

Merwin of Rockport exhibited dishes of fine American and "Black Heart" 
cherries, also, "Crown Bob," "White Smith," "Champaign" and smooth red 
gooseberries. 

J. Thomas handed in a dish of delicious cherries - "Napoleon Bigarreau." 

L. Woodworth of Euclid contributed a dish of mammoth "Downton" straw- 
berries. 

Mrs. H. V. Willson sent in a dish of very large gooseberries - the 
"Long Green" - these were enormous in size. 

E. Cable, presented a plate of "American Heart" "Black Tartarian," 
and "Kentish Red" cherries - fine specimens. Many other contributions 
were made. 

The balance in the treasury is $71.83. The society adjourned until 
June 26 at two p.m. (14) 

783 - H June 30:3/1 - The Horticultural society held its regular meeting 
on June 28. The show was as good as could be expected. There were more 
ladies in attendance than usual, and we trust they will continue to lend 
their countenance, as there is no fear for the success of the society if 
the "flowers of loveliness but grace our meetings." 

The shower at the close of the sale was unfortunate for the comfort 
of the ladies, but very opportune for the potatoes. 

An exhibition of flowers was given and the flower "Picotees" was given 
most attention. We believe they are new in these parts and are well 
worthy of the attention of florists. (11) 

784 - H July 1:3/1 - An omission occurred in our last report of the Horti- 
cultural exhibition in not noticing the fine display of Picotees from 
Messrs. Elliott &amp; Co. 's Nursery. A bouquet in which these beautiful 
flowers were conspicuous, attracted much attention. (verbatim) (1) 

785 - H July 21:3/2 - The regular meeting of the Horticultural society 
was held on July 12. The show of fruits was meager, but the display of 
flowers was much better than usual. A greater attendance of ladies, and 
a more generous representation from their flower beds marked this exhibi- 
tion. 

At the business meeting, Dr. Kirkland made a report relative to the 
early Prussian cucumber seed received from Dr. Hildreth of Marietta. (10) 

786 - H July 23; ed:2/l - While the gardens of the eastern states are ex- 
alted in eastern newspapers, time can be taken to describe much that is 
worthy of note in our gardens and farms in and about Cleveland. 

Very prominent in this community is the Evergreen Place, owned by 
Judge Wood. This farm is located on the immediate bank of the lake, some 
seven miles west of Cleveland, and embraces over 500 acres of rich loamy 
soil. About one-half of this expanse is cleared land suitable for tilling; 
at this time there are 22 acres in oats, 15 in wheat of the white chaff 
bearded variety, 16 acres in corn, besides potatoes and smaller crops. 
Planting of fruit trees and ornamental trees and shrubs and the care of 



133

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 787 - 789 ' ■ ' ^■'■ 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd) 

glens through which numerous small streams flow into the lake have en- 
hanced the beauty of the place. 

The residence of the proprietor is built about 30 rods from the shore 
of the lake and is almost hidden by evergreens, climbing plants, etc. 
Of especial note is a climbing rose which covers one entire side of the 
residence, presenting, in bloom, a floral exhibit that would rival any- 
thing in the east. A spacious turf, surrounded by trees, grape vines, 
and raspberry bushes, adds to the attractiveness of the Evergreen Place. 

At the left of the house is a deep ravine which is in a large portion 
appropriated as a park for deer, of which there are six in the enclosure. 

"We may not have the immense collection of Green House plants that are 
to be found in some of the gardens of wealthy men of the east, but for a 
comparatively new section of country, we can point to acts and things as 
creditable to us as the vast collections which are worthy of note at the 
east." (16) 

787 • H July 25; ed:3/l - The regular meeting of the Horticultural society 
for the exhibition of fruits and flowers will again be held at the society's 
room to-morrow at 2 p.m. We hope our citizens will not be forgetful, 
(verbatim) (1) 

788 • H July 28:3/2 - The Cleveland Horticultural society met in regular 
session on July 26 with President Kirkland officiating. The exhibition 
of flowers grown by Clevelanders was in order, and the following were 
among those showing their plants: Professor Kirkland, Mrs. Prentiss, Miss 
Elvira Cable, Judge Wood, and Messrs. Elliot and Company. 

Specimens of peach tree and potato-bug worms were exhibited by the 
president of the club. Professor Kirkland also exhibited cucumbers of 
the Russian variety, the only ones grown here thus far. The seeds for 
these cucumbers were donated by Dr. J. P. Hildreth of Marietta. 

Little by little new and valuable seeds are being introduced here by 
the society, and it is to be hoped all will recognize the benefits of such 
an organization, and by contributing a small sum, increase and extend the 
usefulness of the group and add to the city's comforts and luxuries. (13) 

789 - H July 29:2/1 - During these hot and dry summer months many amateur 
cultivators of trees and plants err in the practice of copiously watering 
them. Too much water, it must be understood, is damaging to the tree; 

the roots draw up more moisture than is necessary for the plant's ordinary 
use, and rotting limbs and roots result. It is much better to drench the 
trees several times daily, in place of drowning their roots: or, too, one '.' 
can place a bundle of cotton, saturated with water, in the crotch of the 
tree, thus allowing a constant wetting of the bark and leaves. 

In all soils, especially of clay, the best system is to loosen the 
earth well about the tree, spread around it six inches of loose leaves, " 
newly-mown grass, weeds, or light mould from the woods. The litter serves 
to keep the roots from being parboiled as is often the case when water is 
applied and the surface left bare. This is what is technically known as 
mulching, and the practice would result in less dead trees if employed 
more often by gardeners. (7) 



134

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 790 - 797 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd) 

790 - H Aug. 8:3/2 - In preparing whale oil soap suds for the destruction 
of insects on vegetables, the proportion recommended is half a pint of 
soap to half a pail of water. If made stronger, vegetation as well as 
the insects, may be destroyed bv the acridity of the soap. (verbatim) 

(1) 

791 - H Aug. 8; ed:3/2 - To-morrow afternoon the Horticultural society 
holds an exhibition. We hope to see plums and other fruit. At all events 
let friends of the cause look into the rooms. (1) 

792 - H Aug. 22:3/1 - At the regular meeting of the Cleveland Horticultural 
society on Aug. 9 the following contributed displays: Mrs. R. Lord, Mrs. 
William Smyth, Mrs. William Milford, Milo M. Hickox, Mrs. George B. Merwin, 
Mcintosh and Company, Mrs. Sackett, J. Blair, President Kirkland, and 
Elliott and Company. (8) 

793 - H Aug. 22:3/1 - Tomorrow at 2 p.m. the Horticultural Society meets. 
It is probable there will be some fine fruit displayed. (I) 

794 - H Sept. 2; ed:2/l - On Sept. 6, the Horticultural society will spon- 
sor an exhibition of fruits, vegetables, and flowers. 

"We like this move of the Society. In a year so unpropitious to the 
production of fruits as this present one, the attempt to get up a large 
annual show could result in nothing but failure. We like therefore this 
move, made at a season when there are the most fruits in perfection, and 
we hope our citizens and the people from the country will contribute 
largely.... Our Ladies will also, we hope, exert themselves in forming 
pretty designs by means of arrangement with flowers." (6) 

795 - H Sept. 2:2/4 - The Cleveland Horticultural society will exhibit 
fruits, flowers, and vegetables at its rooms on Sept. 6. It is hoped 
th'S showing will in a measure replace the annual exhibition which this 
year cannot be held because of a dearth of fruits. (3) 

796 - H Sept. 5; ed:3/l - The Show To -Morrow. Send in your things early. 
Send your pumpkins and peaches - your squashes and grapes - your potatoes 
and nectarines - your melons and turnips - your onions and sweet-scented 
flowers; and, indeed all that you have, to add to the attractiveness of 
this day's show, and the benefit of the Horticultural society. Go also 
in the evening and make purchase of the good and beautiful of Nature's 
products. Bid for the tasteful arranged boquets, quiz the arranger and 
the seller if you can, and let the sport go on to the pleasant pastime of 
the evening hours. (verbatim) (2) 

797 - H Sept. 9:3/2 - The Cleveland Horticultural society sponsored its 
last floral and fruit exhibition at its regular meeting on Sept. 6. The 
display of plants was most gratifying and proved that the society members 
can grow acceptable products despite severe drouths and late frosts. 

Among the exhibitors were Elliott and Company, George B. Merwin, Mrs. 



135

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 798 - 803 

HORTICULTURE (Cont'd)

B. Harrington, H. H. Corr of Euclid. 

Tbe sale of fruit and flowers exhibited during the day was well attended 
and netted the society a neat profit. 

The next meeting of the society will be held on Oct. 3. (15) 

798 - H Dec. 5:2/1 - It is advisable to cover plants sufficiently at this 
time to guard against the ravages of winter. An eight or ten inch cover- 
ing over roots is sufficient; upright plants should be encased in a cover- 
ing of straw, tied around them in the manner of a straw-covered jug. It is 
not the cold that injures, but the sudden change occasioned by the action 
of sun rays on the upper plant, causing sap to circulate vigorously with- 
out corresponding action in the roots. (3) 

799 - H Dec. 5:2/1 - Some 30 volumes have been added to tbe library of 
the Cleveland Horticultural society, constituting a furtherance of that 
organization's drive for the establishment of a complete agricultural and 
horticultural library. The group is also endeavoring to erect a building 
for horticultural purposes, and aims to seek the aid of the public in this 
worthy project. (4) 

See also Flowers &amp; Florists; Greenhouses &amp; Nurseries — y - . 

HOSPITALS 

800 - H Mar. 10:2/2 - If we understand the reports of the proceedings 
correctly, an amendment was made to the navy appropriation bill, appro- 
priating $25,000 towards the erection of Marine hospitals at Cleveland, - 
Louisville, and Pittsburgh, and the bill was signed by the President, 
(verbatim) (1) 

801 - H Mar. 12; ed:3/l - Our citizens will be gratified to learn on the 
authority of the Hon. E. D. Potter, who has arrived from Washington, that 
$25,000 was appropriated at the late session of Congress for the Marine 
hospital at Cleveland. 

By the way, the thanks of the people of the entire Lake region are due 
Mr. Potter for his unremitted attention to their interests, and of our 
citizens and seamen especially, for his successful exertions in securing 
an appropriation for the Marine Hospital of the Lakes. (verbatim) (2) 

802 - H Mar. 26:2/2 - The following is the section making the Marine 
hospital appropriation: Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, That the 
sum of $23,000 be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the purpose of erecting marine hospitals upon the sites 
owned by the United States at Pittsburgh, Louisville, and Cleveland, 

under the direction of the secretary of the treasury. (3) 

803 - H Apr. 5; ed:2/l - The Ashtabula SENTINEL takes exception to a para- 
graph we published a short time since, in which we spoke in very favorable 
terms of exertions in reference to the appropriation for our marine hospital, 
of Potter, M. C, from the Toledo district and of Messrs. J. W. Allen 



136

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 804 - 807 

HOSPITALS (Cont'd) 

and H. V. Willson, who were delegated by the citizens of Cleveland to 

further this and other projects before Congress. 

"The exception is because of our omission to refer to Mr. Giddings, 
our Representative. This omission was entirely accidental." (8) 

804 - H June 11:2/1 - We are gratified to learn that the U. S. Marine 
hospital is to be immediately commenced under the superintendence of Maj. 
S. H. Webb. It is to be located on the high bank of the lake below Erie 
st. and bounded on three sides by public streets. The building will be 
three stories high. When completed it will accommodate upwards of 100 
patients. 

We learn that the building materials are to be of the most permanent 
and durable quality - the basement of hammer-dressed stone, the super- 
structure of pressed brick - and that strict attention will be given to 
the work, to see that it is well executed. 

Mr. Heard has been selected as the principal architect. He is well 
qualified for that duty. (6) 

See also Medical Profession; Mental Diseases - Asylums 

HOTELS &amp; LODGINGS 

805 - H Feb. 20:3/3 - In the court of Common Pleas, Judge Bissell pre- 
siding, the following cases were disposed of yesterday: Petition of Levi 
Lockwood for license to keep tavern in Brighton - granted. 

Petition of D. Losey and Samuel Lockwood to keep tavern in Royalton • 
granted. (2) 

806 ■ H Apr. 8:3/1 • The builders have started the work of removing the 
whole range of stores and offices from Crittenden's store, adjacent to 
Scovill's towering new Franklin House, along Superior to the corner of 
Bank st., and down Bank st., to the residence of Dr. Clarke, to give room 
for the stately and splendid blocks immediately to be erected by P. M. 
Weddell, Esq., and Capt. L. Johnson. The buildings to be torn down are 
some of the most ancient in the city, and when erected were considered 
great ornaments to the "village." (4) 

807 - H Apr. 8:3/1 - The Weddell House at the corner of Superior and Bank 
sts. will front 125 feet 6 inches on Superior st. and 185 feet 6 inches 

on Bank st., with a wing in the rear, parallel with Superior st., 80 feet. 
The front building will have four stories and an attic, with a recess ex- 
tending 30 feet each way from the corner of Superior and Bank sts. The 
recess is enclosed and supported by Grecian Doric columns to the fourth 
story, with neat iron railings. The whole exterior will be white sand- 
stone and brick, built in a plain, substantial manner. The hotel will be 
surmounted by an octagon cupola, 16 feet in diameter, with a promenade on 
the top. The building is to be completed by Jan. 1, 1847. (5) 



137

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 808 - 813 

HOTELS &amp; LODGINGS (Cont'd) 

808 ■ H May 30:3/1 - Mr. Scoville, has completed his new Franklin House 
and will open it for the reception of guests tomorrow. The building, 
which has four stories, is one of the most valuable city improvements 
ever erected. 

The new house is the work of Cleveland mechanics throughout. Not an 
article in the house has been procured or manufactured from abroad, and 
the expenditure of thousands of dollars in its construction and furnish- 
ings has benefited many worthy members of the community. The excellent 
host and hostess of the Franklin, Mr. and Mrs. Scoville, are generally 
and favorably known to the western traveling world. The troops of former 
friends and the scores of newcomers who daily need the refreshments of 
a caravansary, will find them like choice old wine, transferred to new 
and appropriate bottles. Here's to their good health and continued 
prosperity. . i (12) 

809 - H Aug. 19; ed:3/l - Well-kept and well -supported temperance public 
houses are a credit to any people, and we are pleased to hear from several 
knowing ones, that the new Fountain House, kept by Mr. Dunham, in the 
thriving village of Bedford, in this county, is one of that deserving 
class. The Fount?in House is an elegant stone edifice, and all its 
fixtures are of the most substantial and convenient kind. The rooms are 
well fitted and furnished, and the host and hostess exhibit all that 
suavity and attention to guests which render the traveller's rest a wel- 
come home, (verbatim) (2) 

810 • H Sept. 2; ed:3/l - We learned with much pleasure this morning that 
Richard Cook and his two sons have signed the temperance pledge and wil-1 
herefrom run their St. Clair house on a non-liquor basis. The bar will 
soon be taken out of the hotel. 

"This is a reform that will dispense countless blessings in community, 
and would that the keepers of every Hotel in our city could be persuaded 
to follow the good example." (5) 

811 - H Sept. 5:3/1 - Good Sign - Mr. Cook, of the former St. Clair House, 
has hoisted the excellent sign of Temperance House, in bold, legible char- 
acters, which we trust all friends of sobriety will see and appreciate by 
their encouraging and sustaining patronage. (verbatim) (1) 

812 - H Oct. 2:2/1 - The friends of temperance will be glad to know that 
Mr. E. M. Segur has discarded all strong drinks from his establishment. 
His Temperance Saloon is however richly provided with the choicest deli- 
cacies as well as the substantials of the season, and customers will find 
everything served up promptly and in the most palateable style. (verbatim) 

(1) 

813 - H Dec. 18:3/1 - The Weddell House. - The Builders elevated and 
placed the top stone of this magnificent structure at noon to-day with re- 
joicings. It is a mammoth Eagle sculptured in stone, and overlooks our 
young City from a proud and lofty eyrie. (verbatim) (1) 

HOUSEHOLD EQUIPMENT &amp; FURNISHINGS. See Retail Stores &amp; Trade 



138

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 814 - 820 

PLACEHOLDER

IMMIGRATION &amp; EMIGRATION 

814 - H July 3; ed:2/3 - Government regulations have been adopted at 
Berlin, requiring that all passenger agents clearing a shipload of emi- 
grants bound for the United States certify that no one on board is 
leaving Germany to escape imprisonment for crime or to escape military 
service. 

"This will help to quiet the clamors of the Nativists, and we hope 
other European governments will adopt similar regulations." (2) 

815 - H July 9; ed:3/l • Since the commencement of the present year, 
33,846 foreigners have arrived at the port of New York, a great increase 
over the same period last year. "The tide of immigration is every year 
increasing." 

See also Citizenship 



(2) 



INCORPORATIONS &amp; PARTNERSHIPS 

816 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/5 ■ DISSOLUTION ■ The co-partnership heretofore 
existing between the subscribers under the name of Standart, Ingraham 

&amp; Co., is this day dissolved by mutual consent. The business of the 
firm will be closed by N. M. Standart. N. M. Standart, T. Ingraham. 
Cleveland, Dec. 28, 1844. (1) 

817 - H Jan. 6; adv:l/6 - The co-partnership heretofore existing between 
the undersigned under the name of S. L. &amp; H. Petrie, at Cleveland, Ohio 
is this day dissolved by mutual consent. All debts due to or by said 
firm will be settled by S. L. Petrie.- S. L. Petrie, H. Petrie. 
Cleveland, Oct. 21. 1844. (verbatim) (1) 

818 - H Jan. 25:2/4 - Notice - is hereby given that the firm of Scribner, 
Cary &amp; Co., was dissolved by mu'ual consent, on the 24th inst., and the 
business will be continued at the old stand under the firm of G. B. 
Scribner &amp; Co., who are authorized to settle the affairs of the late firm. 

G. B. &amp; Co. tender their thanks for the liberal share of patronage 
heretofore extended to them, and hope a continuation of the same by well 
doing. G. B. Scribner &amp; Co. (verbatim) (1) 

819 - H Jan. 30; adv:2/4 - The co-partnership heretofore existing be- 
tween the undersigned under the name of J. McCleland &amp; Brothers is this 
day dissolved by mutual consent. All debts due to or by said firm will 
be settled by John McCleland. John McCleland, James McCleland, William 
McCleland. 

The above business will be continued at the old stand by J. McCleland 
&amp; Co. J. McCleland, W. McCleland, S. L. Baker. (verbatim) (1) 

820 - H Feb. 1; adv:2/7 - The co-partnership heretofore existing between 
the subscribers, under the name of S. Ranney &amp; Co. is this day dissolved 
by mutual consent. The business will be conducted as usual by J. W. 
Ogram who is authorized to settle all accounts. S. Ranney, J. W. Ogram. 

(1) 



139

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 821 - 829 

INCORPORATIONS &amp; PARTNERSHIPS (Cont'd) 

821 - H Apr. 3:2/4 - The connexion in business heretofore existing between 
the subscribers under the firm and name of Winch &amp; Hugunin is this day 
dissolved by mutual consent. The business will be settled by T. Winch. 

T. Winch, j. R. Hugunin. (1) 

822 - H Apr. 3; adv:2/5 • The partnership heretofore existing between 
Peter Marseilles and Solomon Sherman was dissolved on the 5th ult., by 
mutual consent. Peter Marseilles, Solomon Sherman. (1) 

823 - H Apr. 24; adv:3/6 - The co-partnership heretofore existing be- 
tween the subscribers under the firm of Blair &amp; Bishop is dissolved by 
mutual consent. 

The arrangement of unsettled business will be attended to by either 
of the partners. John Blair. L. H. Bishop. (verbatim) (1) 

824 - H May 30; adv:3/3 • Dissolution. The Co-partnership of Doddridge 
&amp; Coe is this day dissolved, Mr. W. H. Willard having withdrawn. The 
business will be continued under the same name and firm by N. W. 
Doddridge, S. S. Coe. (1) 

825 - H Aug. 1; adv:2/5 - The Co-partnership of Philpot &amp; Camp, hereto- 
fore engaged in the business of mining and marketing coal, is this day 
dissolved by mutual consent. William Philpot is fully authorized to 
collect the dues and settle up the affairs of said concern. Those hav- 
ing claims against said concern will present them to him for payment, 
and those indebted will make payment to him. Wm. Philpot, H. Camp. 
(verbatim) (1) 

826 - H Aug. 13; adv:2/5 - The co-partnership between Daniel Odell and 
Stephen L. Petrie, under the firm of Daniel Odell &amp; Co. was dissolved 
on the 26th day of July, 1845, by agreement. Stephen L. Petrie. 
(verbatim) (1) 

827 - H Aug. 15; adv:2/5 - Notice is hereby given that the firm of G. B. 
Scribner &amp; Co. was dissolved by mutual consent on the 5th of August. 

G. B. Scribner &amp; Co. Aug. 14, 1845. (verbatim) (1) 

828 - H Aug. 16; adv:2/6 - Notice is hereby given that the firm of 

G. B. Scribner &amp; Co. was dissolved by mutual consent on the Gth of • ' 
August. G. B. Scribner &amp; Co. Cleveland, Aug. 14, 1845. 

Notice is also hereby given that the firm of G. B. Scribner &amp; Co., is 
"not" dissolved and the above notice was published without my knowledge 
or consent by Reuben Sheldon, a member of said firm. G. B. Scribner. 
(verbatim) (1) 

829 - H Sept. 1:2/4 - The Partnership heretofore existing under the firm of 
H. Mould &amp; Sons is dissolved by mutual consent. All accounts of said firm 
will be settled by H. Mould. H. Mound, B. K. Mould, E. C. Mould. (1) 



140

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 830 - 836 

INCORPORATIONS &amp; PARTNERSHIPS (Cont'd) 

830 - H Sept. 5:2/4 - Notice - The co-partnership, heretofore existing 

under the firm of J. Stafford &amp; Co., is this day dissolved by mutual 

consent. 

The books of said firm are in the hands of J. Stafford, who is author- 
ized to close the business of the firm. Jonas Stafford. Geo. W. Girty. 



(1) 



831 - H Sept. 30:2/5 - The firm of Hanks &amp; Hopkins, is this day dis- 
solved by mutual consent. Settlements will be made by either of us, 
at the old stand. J. F. Hanks, H. P. Hopkins. (1) 

832 - H Oct. 17; adv:2/6 - The co-partnership heretofore existing under 
the firm of Bond &amp; Co. was on the 1st October last, dissolved, and all 
persons having due bill or demand against said firm are requested to 
present them immediately at their store for payment. M. P. Bond, 

D. E. Bond. (1) 

833 - H Dec. 2; adv:2/5 - The copartnership heretofore existing between 
Drs. Adams &amp; Hoyt was dissolved on the 31st of October last, 1845. 

D. V. Hoyt. (I) 

834 - H Dec. 19; adv:2/4 - The co-partnership heretofore existing under 
the firm of Warner &amp; Witherell is this day dissolved by mutual consent. 

W. J. Warner, George Witherell. (I) 

INDIANS 

835 • H Feb. 17; ed:2/2,3 - The report of Superintendent of Indian af- 
fairs Crawford gives a variety of interesting information concerning 
the condition and number of the Indian tribes west of the Mississippi. 
The total number of Indians in that territory is 168,290. The condition 
of the Indian race in general, is one of improvement. Their great draw- 
back is want of employment - a want of incentive to exertion • of which 
they are deprived by the joint ownership of land and property. 

The Greeks, notwithstanding that their lands were submerged by the 
rains, have raised more corn than they will consume. That portion of 
them known as the "upper town" Greeks have grown and manufactured very 
nearly as much cotton as will clothe them. 

"These things, let it be remembered, have been done by a people with- 
out a written constitution or laws, governed by their chiefs, and living 
in the simplicity of the patriarchal age." (21) 

836 - H Mar, 6; ed:3/2 - The proclamation of the lamented Harrison, re- 
garding an armistice concluded with the Indians, which we copy, "indicates 
that goodness of heart, that innate sense of justice, and that regard 

for the Constitution and the government, that always distinguished him, 
and contrast happily with the theories and practices of some modern pa- 
triots and statesmen, who are willing to ride roughshod over all such 
scruples as influenced the conduct of Gen. Harrison and the brave and 
honest men associated with him a third of a century ago." , .:, (6) 



141

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 837 • 842 

INDIANS (Cont'd) 

837 - H July 24; ed:2/2 - From a report laid before the Canadian legis- 
lative assembly on Mar. 20 of this year, it appears there are some 12,000 
Indians resident on Canadian soil, and that their numbers are increasing. 
The red men are treated humanely by the British government and the tribes 
are improving their social conditions. In Canada they are not driven from 
the lands of their fathers. 

"The contrast with us is humiliating. The lords of the soil have been 
harrassed and hunted down until many tribes have become extinct, and in 
our cupidity for more lands we shall ere long force the mere remnants of 
once powerful nations now gathered beyond the Mississippi, to remove still 
farther West at the point of the bayonet. What a sad record of decay and 
death does the history of the aborigines of this country present!" (8) 

838 - H Aug. 2; ed:2/l - A correspondent of the Boston ATLAS describes 
a delightful evening of dancing with Chippewa Indian girls at a soiree 
at Sault Ste. Marie. He marvels at the grace and beauty of the Indian 
girls and the perfect mixing-in of half-breeds, whites, and Indians at 
the affair. 

"The dancing must have been altogether a different affair from the 
step of the wild Black Bird and his band on the deck of the LEXINGTON 
in 1839." (5) 

INSANITY. See Mental Diseases 

INSECTS 

839 ■ H July 17:3/1 • The drouth has greatly marred the prospects of the 
farmers in this quarter, and now the grasshoppers and army bug have be- 
gun the work of destroying the vegetation left. In some townships the 
grasshoppers have attacked oats and potatoes in such ravenous multitudes 
as to blacken whole fields, and the destructive army bug is cutting its 
way through the fields in other places. In some neighborhoods the farm- 
ers have hastened their march by literally drumming them from their 

fields with music a la Callithumpian. (verbatim) (2) 

INSURANCE 

840 - H Jnn. 3; adv:l/5 - Insurance. The Mutual Insurance Co. of Buffalo. 
Marine risks taken by their agent. L. D. Mathews. Office at T. Richmond 
&amp; Co., Cleveland. (1)

841 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 - The St. Lawrence Inland Marine Assurance Com- 
pany continues to take risks on Vessels, Produce, Merchandize, etc., at 

the office of Benedict &amp; Hitchcock. George A. Benedict, Agent. (1) 

842 - H Jan. 3; adv. 1/5 - The Williamsburgh Fire Insurance Company, have 
established an agency at Cleveland and are prepared to take risks on Build- 
ings, Vessels in port. Goods and Personal property at the lowest rates of 
any responsible Company. Mills, Dwellings and other property insured on 
the most liberal terms. M. B. Scott; Agent. (5) 



142

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 843 ■ 852 

INSURANCE (Cont'd) 

843 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/5 - The Protection Fire &amp; Marine Insurance Company, 
of Hartford, Conn. Agent: A. M. C. Smith. Office on Superior st., 

over Clark &amp; Murfey's Hardware Store. (2) 

844 - H Jan. 29; adv: 2/4 - The Mutual Insurance Co., of Buffalo, at 
their agency office in this city, are now prepared to make Insurance on 
Marine, Inland Navigation and Fire Risks, on terms as favorable as other 
Companies. N. C. Winslow, agent. (2) 

845 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - The Croton Mutual Insurance Company of New 
York City. M. B. Scott, local agent. Fire insurance, Marine risks, 
Shippers, and Merchants assurance. (4) 

846 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - The Howard Insurance Co. of New York City, 
insurance on Fire and Inland Navigation. Capital $300,000. Office No. 
54 Wall st. N. C. Winslow, local agent, at offices of R. Winslow &amp; Co. 

(2) 

847 • H July 1; adv: 3/3 - Fire and Marine Insurance, By the North Western 
Insurance Co., of Oswego. Policies issued by J. L. Weatherly. (1) 

848 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - Aetna Insurance Company. Since the publishing 
of the law of this State in relation to taxing "Foreign Insurance Com- 
panies," some solicitations have been manifest as to whether all Agents 
had complied with the requisitions of said law. To all interested, I 
would say, my appointment as Agent of the Aetna Insurance Company, of 
Hartford, Conn., is dated 26th June, 1838. Previous to issuing a single 
Policy, I filed a bond with the County Treasurer for $2,000, conditioned 
according to the law, and have since paid taxes and complied with the 

said law to the "exact letter." C. C. Carlton, Agent. (1) 

849 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - New York Equitable Insurance Co., New York 
City, capital $300,000. Lambert Suydam, president. N. F. Brayton, 

local agent. ... (2) 

850 - H July 1; adv: 1/3 - The Mutual Insurance Co. of Buffalo, N. Y., 

N. C. Winslow, Cleveland agent at offices of R. Winslow &amp; Co. According 
to the charter, all persons insuring with the company are entitled to 
share in the profits, for which certificates bearing interest will be 
issued, and when the certificates of earnings exceed $100,000, the sur- 
plus money may be paid to the holders, pro rata, according to their date. 

(2) 

851 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - Prentis Dow, Agent Columbus Insurance Company, 
No. 1 Merchants Exchange, Superior street. (1) 

852 - H July 3; adv: 3/4 ■ M B. Scott, No. 1 Commercial building, is 
local agent for the National Loan-Fund Life Assurance Co. of London, En- 
gland, (empowered by act of Parliament) with a capital of 500,000 pounds 
sterling. Jacob Harvey, Esq., of New York City, is U. S. Board of Direc- 
tors Chairman of the firm. (4) 



143

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 853 - 859 

INSURANCE (Cont'd) 

853 - H July 3; adv:2/5 - Lawrence and Wright, Merwin Square, local 
agents for Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. of New York. 

Premiums can be paid one-fourth in cash, three-fourths in a note at 
12 months, with 6 per cent, interest. A man 30 years old can insure 
his life for $1,000 by paying 50 cents per week. Other benefits in 
proportion. (3) 

854 - H Oct. 27; adv:l/3 - Inland Marine Insurance. Lake &amp; River 
Risks taken on account, Montreal Inland Navigation Assurance Company. 

At the office of Wm. R. Eckart. (1) 

INTOXICATION 

855 - H Apr. 3:3/1 - Coroner Camp held an inquest today on the body of 
Joseph Gledhill, found dead near the canal basin. Verdict of jury - 

death from intemperance. ' ' 

Gledhill, we un'erstand, resided in Bedford, was a shoemaker by 
trade, commenced work in this city on Monday, got into a drunken spree 
yesterday, and was found dead this forenoon. (verbatim) (1) 

856 - H Sept. 12; ed:3/3 - The Baltimore AMERICAN says: Two children, 
named Lively, died at Lancaster, on Wednesday from eating corn. 

A good many full-grown men might be named who have died from drinking 
"corn." (verbatim) (1) 

See also Temperance 

IRON &amp; STEEL 

857 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/7 - Spang &amp; Co. have this day rec'd direct from 
works in addition to former stock: 15 tons - 2 - 16 Boiler Iron, 21 
tons Flat Bar Iron, 13 tons Round and Square Iron, 13 tons Sheet Iron, 
assorted No. 5 tons Spring Steel, 16 kegs Boiler Rivits. All warranted 
made from Juniata Bloons, (sic) and for sale at Pittsburgh nett Cash. 
Prices and freight, at their warehouse. Am. House Buildings. (verbatim) 

(1) 

858 - H Apr. 30; adv:2/4 - Juniata Iron, Nails, Steel, etc. Our Rolling 
Mill Factory and Steel Works, being uninjured by the late fire at Pitts- 
burgh, are still in full operation. Our stork in Cleveland will be 
largely increased in a few days with the very best of Juniata Iron, 
Nails, Steel, Glass, etc., and now that our house in Pittsburgh is out 
of trouble and confusion and can attend to shipments to this place, our 
customers may rely upon their orders receiving immediate attention. 

Spang &amp; Co. (verbatim) (1) 

859 - H Apr. 30; adv:2/4 - Scrap Iron Wanted - The subscribers want 
Scrap Iron, for which a fair price will be paid at their warehouse. 

W. A. Otis &amp; Co. (1) 



144

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 860 - 863 

IRON &amp; STEEL (Cont'd) 

860 - H Aug. 19; ed:3/2 - A most important discovery in the manufacture 
of iron has been made at Troy, N. Y. The west side of Lake Champlain 
abounds in magnetic ore from which the new iron is made in a reverbatory 
furnace with only one heat. The result is a soft malleable iron, capa- 
ble of being drawn into the smallest wires. It is obtained by a process 
of deoxidizing the iron, for which process a patent has been secured by 
the inventor. The cheapness and facility with which iron can thus be 
produced make it one of the first inventions of the age. (verbatim) (2) 

861 - H Sept. 19; adv:2/4 - Iron, Nails, Spikes, &amp;c., &amp;c., Just Received 
at No. 13 Merwin-street a general assortment of Iron, consisting of all 
sizes of tire. Bar Iron, Round Square and Band Iron. Also - Nos. 14, 
16, 17, 20. 24, 26 Sheet Iron. Also, a general assortment of Nails and 
Wrought Spikes, which are offered for sale on reasonable terms. 

E. Hughes. (1) 

862 - H Nov. 28; adv:2/5 - Spang &amp; Co. Have removed their Warehouse to 
Nos. 1 &amp; 3 New England House Buildings, corner of Merwin and Superior 
Lane, opposite the Custom House. (1) 

ISLANDS 

863 - H Nov. 7; ed:2/2 - Literature of the Sandwich Islands. - There 
are five newspapers now published at Honolulu; four in English, and one 
in the Hawaiian language; a striking illustration of the power of Chris- 
tian instruction, which, in the course of twenty-five years, has raised 
these islands from the lowest state of degradation to a respectable rank 
among civilized nations. (verbatim) (1) 



145

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 864 - 869 '■ ' 

PLACEHOLDER

JEWELRY &amp; JEWELERS

864 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/6 - Britannia Tea Pots Just Rec'd. Those wishing 

to buy by the doz. will find a rare chance at N. E. Crittenden's. (1) 

865 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 • B. B. Hastings, Watch Maker, Silver Smith, 

and Jeweler, opposite the American House. (1) 

866 • H Jan. 23; adv: 2/4 - N. E. Crittenden offers for sale an extensive 
assortment of Gold and Silver Lever Watches. Gold and Silver Ancres and 
Lepines. Gold and Silver Verge Watches. Silver English Watches, doubled 
bottomed and doubled cased. Dunning' s time pieces and office clocks. 
Marble, alabaster and Ebony clocks. Watch materials and Tools of all 
kinds. Jewelry, French and English Fancy Goods. Daguerreotype Plates, 
Miniature cases, etc. etc. All of which he offers at Eastern prices. 

Jewelers living in the country will do well to call and examine. All 
orders from a distance promptly attended to. (verbatim) (1) 

867 - H Jan. 28; adv: 2/4 - Watches and Jewelry. The largest and most 
splendid assortment of Watches in the city. Gold watches as low as $20 
to $25 each. All watches warranted to keep good time or money returned. 
G. C. Allen. (2) 

868 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - L. Whitmore &amp; Co., dealers in Clocks, Watches, 
Jewelry, Fancy Goods, Looking Glasses and Lamps, No. 38 Superior-street, 
under the American. Watches, Clocks, Jewelry and Musical Instruments 
repaired. (1) 

869 • H July 1; adv: 1/3 - Lamps, Lamps, Lamps - Just received a splendid 
stock of every description of Solar Lamps, and all kinds of Lamp Glasses 
and Wicks. N. E. Crittenden, Next door east of the Franklin House. 

(1) 



146

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 870 - 876 

JEWELRY &amp; JEWELERS (Cont'd) 

870 - H July 1; adv:4/6 - The subscribers are now opening at No. 141 
Superior-st., two doors west of the square, a well selected stock of 
Watches, Jewelry and Fancy Goods which Ihey offer at prices which cannot 
fail to please. 

Watches, Clocks and Jewelry repaired in the very best manner. Old 
Gold and Silver wanted. D. E. Field &amp; Co. (1) 

871 - H Sept. 26; adv:2/5 - Purse Twist, Purse Rings and Tassels and 
Steel Beads, just rec'd at Beckwith's. (1) 

872 - H Dec. 30; adv:2/4 - J. Coon, successor to B. B. Hastings, dealer . 
in Clocks, Watches, Jewelry, Silver Spoons, Fancy Goods, etc. etc.. No. 

49 Weddell House. (1) 

873 - H Dec. 30; adv:2/4 - B. B. Hastings, repairer of every description 

of Clocks, Watches and Jewelry, No. 49 Weddell House, Cleveland. (1) 

JUDICIARY 

874 - H Feb. 26:3/1 ■ We understand that Thomas M. Kelley, Esq., has been 
elected assoc'ate ju^ge of this county, to fill the vacancy occasioned 

by the expiration of the term of Judge Warren. (1) 

See also Courts 
LABOR. See Capital &amp; Labor 
LAND. See Real Estate 
LANGUAGE &amp; LINGUISTS 

H Sept. 9; adv:2/4 - See Music 

875 - H Njv. 19; adv:2/4 - French and Spanish Languages. Prof. Joseph 
Bourgoin has removed from No. 27 to No. 47, Huron st., in the brick cot- 
tage, where he will be happy to have his old pupils resume their classes, 
and new ones join them. Medical students are advised to form a class for 
the study of French, in which language most of their study books are writ- 
ten. Mr. B. also translates the Italian and Portuguese languages. (2) 

LARCENIES. See Crime &amp; Criminals 

LATIN AMERICA 

876 - H Aug. 11; ed:3/l - General Almonte, late Minister to this country 
from Mexico, has been appointed secretary of war by the Mexican govern- 
ment. - In the event of a war with this country, he will be found an ef- 
ficient cabinet officer. It will be recollected that Gen. Almonte was 
once the secretary of Santa Anna, and was captured with him in the battle 
of San Jacinto. (verbatim) (I) 



147

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 877 - 883 

PLACEHOLDER

LAWS. See Politics &amp; Government; specific subjects of laws 

LEASES &amp; RENTALS 

877 - H Mar. 3:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 28, it was re- 
solved that the proposition of J. G. Stockley to pay his rent one quarter 
in advance, subject to forfeiture in case he shall fail to pay each quar- 
ter prior to the commencement thereof be accepted. (1) 

878 - H Mar. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 4, the mayor 
was authorized to execute leases for Bath st. on receiving payments for 
rents or securities already accepted. (1) 

879 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, Mr. Mathews 
introduced a resolution, renting 25 feet of ground to Mr. Camp, at present 
reserved by the U. S. government, by consent of the U. S. agent at the 
price of ?4 a foot. Adopted. (1) 

LEATHER &amp; TANNING INDUSTRY 

880 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - Leather! Leather!! Leather!!! - The sub- 
scriber offers for sale at low prices, viz: Spanish Sole Leather 8000 
lbs. acknowledged to be the best tanned leather in town. Kipskins - 9 
dozen of various sizes and qualities, whole skins. Cordovans - 2 dozen, 
a prime article. Harness Leather - 1500 lbs. well finished. Theod: 

Faber, on the dock. (verbatim) (1) 

881 - H Sept. 20; adv:2/4 ■ Cleveland Morocco Factory, C. Terrill &amp; Co., 
would respectfully inform the public generally that they still continue 
their old business, and keep constantly on hand a general assortment in 
their line such as Black Morocco, Coach Roans, Hat and Fair Linings, and 
Colors, such as Cochineal, Pink, Wood, Red, green, blue, yellow, drab, 
etc. etc., all of which will be sold low for Cash, or to accommodate 
will exchange for Sheep Pelts, or Deer Skins on the most reasonable 
terms, as they are not to be undersold by any establishment west of New 
York. Cash paid for any quantity of Sheep Pelts, delivered at their old 
stand. Covered Bridge. (2) 

See also Hides &amp; Skins 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES 

882 - H Feb. 12; adv:2/4 - Prof. St. John will deliver a course of lec- 
tures on Geology, before the Medical Class at the Apollo Hall, commencing 
tomorrow evening at 7 o'clock. 

The citizens are cordially invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

883 - H Feb. 14:3/1 - The Apollo was well filled last evening to hear the 
introductory Lecture of Professor St. John, on Geology; and such interest 
was excited in the subject by the able lecturer, that we feel assured all 
who heard him will be regular attendants during the course. Next Lecture 
on Monday evening. (verbatim) (1) 



148

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 884 - 887 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES (Cont'd) 

884 - H Feb. 15:2/4 • Lyceum - The Young Men's Union Society will meet 
at the Hall of the Hancock Block, Monday, Feb. 17, at 7 p.m. 

The question for discussion will be "Is the prejudice existing in the 
United States against the colored people, attributed to their color?" 

Those who will participate in the debate are J. L. Watson, William 
Munson, M. N. Washbon, J. M. Whitfield. 

The public is invited to attend. J. M. Whitfield, secretary. (1) 

885 - H Feb. 19:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Granite" says: "It was 
highly gratifying to see the turn out at Prof. St. John's lecture last eve- 
ning. It was a regular jam Either our citizens are becoming more 

interested in these able and instructive Lectures, or the 'almighty dollar' 
deterred many from attendance upon the first course, who, now that the 
admittance is 'free,' rush to the Lectures, and 'with greedy ears devour 
up' the discourse of the lecturer. If the last is the true reason, what 

a humiliating commentary upon Cleveland liberality." 

Ladies should look to their politeness by being prompt in attendance 
and not interrupt the meetings, much to the disgust of the punctual gen- 
tlemen, (4) 

886 - H Feb. 20:3/3 - In a letter to the editor, Leumas says: As you 
are presumed to know everything, will you be so kind as to state to Mon- 
sieur "Granite" one or two simple reasons why ladies, on entering a lec- 
ture room a little too late, insist upon having a seat, instead of stand- 
ing all the evening. 

The first reason, no doubt, results from the extreme kindness of the 
ladies towards the gentlemen, as it is presumed that gentlemen would be 
very uncomfortable sitting while ladies were standing. 

"Though it is expected that Gentlemen, will be sometimes 'thus rudely 
dislodged,' 'Granite' is not expected to arise." 

And though it may seem hard to disturb a gentleman who by his commend- 
able promptness has secured a good seat, yet allowance should be made 
for the additional time required by ladies to prepare for an evening lec- 
ture; and as the room is free, and all cannot be seated, it should not be 
considered rudeness if the ladies claim the precedence. (2) 

887 - H Feb. 21:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Sixpence" says: As "Gran- 
ite" and "Leumas" are upon a subject on which opinions differ, I will throw 
mine into the common stock. "Granite" says that a "preference should be 
given to ladies, of course, but they by all means should be on hand in sea- . 
son"; and very properly and pertinently asks the question - "Is it true po- 
liteness thus to disturb an audience of four hundred, and compel some gen- 
tleman, who, by his promptness, has secured a good seat, to abandon it?" 

"Let all who intend being present at a lecture, be promptly at the place 
at the hour appointed, and any gentleman will cheerfully give place to a 
lady, if he can consistently with his duties to others." (12) 



149

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 888 -893 ■ • ; 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES (Cont'd)

888 - H Feb. 21; ed:2/l • "Granite's" brief communication, a few days 
since, opened a question very similar to most others, in the fact that 
it has two sides; as appears by the eagerness of knights of the quill 
to discuss it. 

"Sixpence" today is rather "sharp set" and tells some truths in very 
plain language. "Those who need reproof may profit by it, and those 
who do not need it can dodge the application.... ■' 

"We rejoice that even free Lectures cause a pressure in Lecture-rooms... 
Our whole people will learn the value of this excellent method of acquir- 
ing knowledge, and a public taste may be created that will permit no oc- 
casion for a repetition of the strictures of 'Granite' and 'Sixpence' 
in regard to want of liberality in sustaining Lectures on the Arts and 
Sciences." (5) 

889 - H Feb. 22:3/1 - Prof. St. John will deliver his sixth and last 
lecture in the Baptist Church, on Monday evening, in which he will touch 
upon the Geology of Ohio, but dwell principally on the harmony between 
Geology and Revelation. 

The Professor having a mind and heart thoroughly imbued with the 
spirit of Christianity, and being well versed in the science of Geology, 
will doubtless be able to reconcile the apparent discrepancies between 
the two, to the satisfaction of the most incredulous. We bespeak him 
a full house. (verbatim) (2) 

890 - H Feb. 25; ed:3/l - Professor St. John delivered his closing lec- 
ture last evening in the Baptist church before the largest audience we 
have ever seen assembled in our city. 

"His whole course on Geology has been attended by overflowing houses, 
and the warmest thanks of the entire community are due to the learned 
and able Lecturer." (1) 

891 - H Feb. 28:3/1 ■ There will be a lecture delivered at the Court 
House on Friday evening on the theory of vegetation and the composition 
of soils, by Chas. Whittlesy, Esq. - commencing at 7 o'clock. (verbatim) 

(1) 

892 - H Apr. 15; ed:3/l - Our citizens will spend an hour pleasantly 
and profitably by dropping in at the Apollo hall tonight to hear Sackett, 
and witness numerous and highly interesting experiments illustrating 

the wonderful phenomena of electro-magnetism, magneto and thermo elec- 
tricity. 

"Mr. S. has a fine collection of apparatus." (1) 

893 - H Apr. 26:2/3 - L^vi Strong, a native of the Emerald Isle, will de- 
liver a Lecture on the History of Ireland in the basement of the Stone 
Church on Monday Evening at 7:30 p.m. All are invited to attend who 
feel an interest in the subject. 

Tickets 25 cts., to be paid at the door. (1) 



150

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 894 - 901 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES (Cont'd) 

894 • H July 12:3/1 - Lecture on gambling. - Mr. Green, the Reformed 
Gambler, will deliver his first lecture in the Baptist church, to-morrow 
evening. 

Mr. G. Has been one of them, and he has not only cut loose from his 
former associates and practices, but he boldly exposes the "tricks of 
the profession," and leads the way in a reform much needed in most 
cities. His lectures in the eastern cities have been attended by thou- 
sands, of all classes, and are highly commended. (verbatim) (1) 

895 - H July 19:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Reform" says: Although 
Green, the reformed gambler, did not exhibit very close knowledge of 
rhetoric and grammar in his talk here last night, his message must not 

be passed upon lightly. "I have been informed that he has done much good 
where he has lectured heretofore; and it is to be hoped he will exert a 
salutary influence in this city, for there are plenty of gamblers here. 
It is a proper time for the friends of reform to show that they are 
friends indeed, and to support Mr. Green in his laudable and praiseworthy 
undertaking." (7) 

896 - H July 26:2/2 - Abby Kelly has been lecturing to large audiences 
in the eastern part of the Reserve for some time, and we understand she 
will visit this city a week from next Thursday and remain a few days for 
the purpose of lecturing on her favorite topics. (verbatim) (1) 

897 - H July 28:3/1 - Mr. Field will commence a course of free Lectures 
on the Creation, Deluge, &amp;c. , &amp;c., at the Methodist Episcopal Church on 
St. Clair street, this evening. Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to 
attend. (verbatim) (1) 

898 - H Aug. 1:3/1 - Mr. Field will deliver a Lecture at the Wesleyan 
Methodist Chapel, Euclid street, this evening. Subject, "The true mean- 
ing of the First Chapter of Genesis." Admission free. (verbatim) (1) 

899 - H Aug. 8:2/4 - Mr. Field will deliver two Lectures on the character. 
Mission and Illumination of the Hon. Emanuel Swedenborg, at the court 
house, on Friday and Saturday evenings, Aug. 8th and 9th, with a view to 
presenting the claims of his profound and deeply important writings to 

the attention of the public. Admission free. (verbatim) (1) 

900 - H Aug. 20:2/4 - H. N. Hubbell, Principal of the Ohio Deaf and Dumb 
Asylum, Columbus, will speak in the 2d Presbyterian Church of this city, 
on Thursday evening of the present week, and by means of a few of the 
pupils who are with him, will exhibit the course of instruction and im- ;.:• 
provements in that institution. The citizens are respectfully invited 

to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

901 - H Sept. 3; ed:2/l - In a letter to the editor, a subscriber says: 
Young men of Cleveland! No association in this city practices at this 



151

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 902 - 907 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES (Cont'd) 

time the custom of procuring gentlemen of talent and scientific achieve- 
ment to lecture upon various subjects. I suggest therefore that you or- 
ganize to sponsor weekly talks by prominent local men, and to this pur- 
pose a paper awaits you at M. C. Younglove's, which, when signed and ac- 
companied by a two dollar fee from each man, will entitle you to atten- 
dance at 12 such talks. 

"Such is the proposition I offer to you, as promising you more return 
for your money than if you expend it as too many do, for things pertaining 
rather to the body than the mind," (7) 

902 - H Sept. 3; ed:2/l - The plan for sponsoring weekly talks by prom- 
inent citizens, proposed by a correspondent, is worthy of the most favor- 
able attention by the young men of Cleveland. 

"It is much to our discredit that we have no public Reading Room or 
Library Association; but much of the disadvantage of the lack of these 
or similar institutions may be obviated by supporting good Lectures on 
useful and scientific subjects. 

"The dull business season may by this means be rendered the most truly 
valuable of the year, and a taste be established for popular lectures 
that will measurably supersede the common inclination to indulge in ex- 
pensive gaieties and frivolous amusements." (5) 

903 - H Sept. 16:2/4 - William Hayden, will preach at Empire Hall, Wed- 
nesday evening. Sept. 17. Subject - Return of the Jews. (verbatim) (1) 

904 • H Oct. 3:2/3 - Mr. Church, will Lecture on Temperance, at the Taber- 
nacle, this evening. One and all turn out, and you will be well paid for 
your trouble. 

He will Lecture at Doan's Corner's on Sabbath evening next, 
(verbatim) (1) 

905 - H Nov. 7; ed: 2/2 - Dr. B( ynton lectured yesterday at Empire hall 
on "Electricity and Magnetism." 

"He is a fluent, agreeable speaker, has the subtle and wonderful agents 
he deals with under the roost perfect subjection, and his experiments and 
illustrations are so plain and forcible that none can fail to comprehend 
and be instructed." He lectures figain today and tomorrow. (3) 

906 - H Nov. 8:2/2 - Dr. Boynton interested a large audience last eve- 
ning. His lecture tonight will be mainly devoted to Electricity and 
Magnetism in the Human System, and will be well worth hearing, 
(verbatim) (1) 

907 - H Dec. 5:2/1 - Mr. Gaily from Cincinnati will lecture this evening 
at the Stone Church, and it needs only to be known that this gifted and 
eloquent speaker is to lecture, to draw out a crowd. We understand that 
sickness has been the cause of his not visiting us before. He addressed 
a large audience at the Wesleyan church last evening with great effect, 
(verbatim) (1) 



152

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 908 - 915 

LECTURES &amp; SPEECHES (Cont'd) 

908 - H Dec. 12:3/1 • The popular temperance lecturer, Gaily, will 

speak at the Baptist church tonight. (1) 

LEGAL PROFESSION 

909 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - Payne, Willson &amp; Wade, Attorneys at Law, 
Cleveland, Ohio, will attend to professional business entrusted to their 
charge, in the Counties of Cuyahoga, Lorain, Lake, Geauga, and Summit. 
Also, in the United States Courts at Columbus. (1) 

910 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - Bishop &amp; Backus, Attorneys and Counsellors 
at Law, and Solicitors in Chancery, No. 4, Pheonix Buildings, Cleve- 
land. J. P. Bishop, F. T. Backus. (1) 

911 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - John Erwin, Attorney and Counsellor at Law, 
will attend to all Professional Business entrusted to his care. Office 

over J. H. Crittenden's Leather Store, in the Central Buildings. (1) 

912 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - Attorney Samuel L. Mather, Attorney and 
Counsellor at Law, Cleveland, Ohio, will attend to all professional 
business entrusted to his care: in this and the neighboring counties. (1) 

913 - H Feb. 25; ed:2/l - "The following article from the Cincinnati 
GAZETTE, should be read every week by every parent and every hopeful 
son in the land. Cut it out and paste it in the spelling book or on 
the wall beside the looking glass. The wholesome advice is specially 
needed in this day and generation." 

The GAZETTE says: The New York TRUE SUN, in noticing the increase 
of Lawyers, in that city, says: "'There is no end to them, and we do not 
see how the great majority of them are to live. Their profession will 
not support them....' We hope our young friends, in city or country 
ere they settle down upon a plan of life, while captivated with the 
seeming eclat of professional success, will look to the crowded state 
of the bar, &amp;c., and see if another plan would not be better for them 
every way." (11) 

914 - H Apr. 10:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Lex." says: Let me 
make a suggestion through your columns to those gentlemen who are 
authorized by the governors of the other States to take the acknowledg- 
ment of deeds and affidavits here, to operate there. "There are several 
persons so commissioned: but when wanted, nobody can tell who they 
are, for the particular state needed." Now my suggestion is that these 
commissioners, collectively, keep a standing card in the HERALD stating 
the matter desired, viz: John Doe for Massachusetts, Richard Roe for 
Pennsylvania, John Smith for New York. (3) 

915 - H Apr. 16:2/5 - George Hoadley has removed his office across the 
street, to the Rooms occupied by H. A. Hurlburt, Esq., No. 10, second 
floor, Merchants Exchange bldg. (1) 



153

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 916-927 

LEGAL PROFESSION (Cont'd) 

916 - H June 11; adv:2/5 - Cross &amp; Parks, Attorneys And Counsellors At 
Law, office - No. 5, up stairs, Franklin Buildings, corner of Water and 
Superior-sts., Cleveland, Ohio. All professional business in this and 
the neighboring counties, and in the U. S. District Court, will be 
promptly attended to. David W. Cross, Robert Parks. (1) 

917 - H July 1; adv:l/2 • Stephen I. Noble, Attorney and Counsellor at 
Law, and Notary Public, Cleveland, Ohio, Office No. 80 Superior st., 
over J. H. Kel ley's Store, and opposite Commercial Bank of Lake Erie. 

(1) 

918 - H Aug. 7; adv:2/5 - J. K. Hitchcock, Attorney at Law, No. 5, 
Merchants' Exchange. (1) 

919 - H Aug. 7; adv:2/5 - George A. Benedict, Attorney at Law, No. 9 
Merchants' Exchange. (1) 

920 - H Aug. 7; adv:2/5 - The Law firm of Benedict &amp; Hitchcock is dis- 
solved. Geo. A. Benedict, J. K. Hitchcock. (1) 

921 - H Sept. 5:3/1 - At the present term of the Supreme Court in this 
county, the following gentlemen were admitted to practice in the several 
Courts of this State, as Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, and Solicitors 
in Chancery, viz: J. M. Warren, W, H. Upson, F. H. Farnham, N. Millet, 
S. W. Treat, J. Wade, jr., N. Bartlett, and J. A. Morgan. 

(verbatim) (1) 

922 - H Sept. 13; adv:l/2 - E. Bingham, Attorney at Law and Notary Public, 
office corner of Superior and Water-sts., entrance 2 Water st. (1) 

923 • H Sept. 17:3/1 - At the late term of the Supreme Court of Cuyahoga 
county, Geo. B. Merwin, Esq. was admitted to practice in the several 
Courts of this State, as Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Solicitor 

in Chancery. (verbatim) (1) 

924 - H Sept. 18:3/2 - Aner Earl, at the late session of the Supreme 
Court in Cuyahoga county, was admitted to practice as Attorney and 
Counsellor at Law and Solicitor in Chancery, in the several courts of 

this State. (verbatim) (1) 

925 • H Nov. 5:2/5 - I. R. Henry, Attorney at Law, Solicitor and Con- 
veyancer, office at the Court House, Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

926 - H Dec. 17; adv:2/5 - Williamson &amp; Brown, Attorneys At Law, Supe- 
rior st. Cleveland, Ohio. Office in Commercial Buildings. 3d building 

east from the "Weddell House." S. Williamson, Tho. Brown. (1) 

927 - H Dec. 17:3/1 - Law. - Those in need of this useful but uncertain 
commodity, are referred to the card of Messrs. Williamson &amp; Brown. 
(verbatim) (1) 

See also Courts; Judiciary 



154

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 928 - 932 

PLACEHOLDER

LIBEL &amp; SLANDER 

928 - H July 25; ed:3/l - The Dayton JOURNAL announces that Judge Holt, 
who obtained a judgment against the editors of that paper, has been paid 
off. The judge, a real Hard, demanded specie, and got it in ten cent 
pieces. This second Cooper will probably use the dimes for buttons to 
keep safe his very valuable character in future. The Whig friends of 

the JOURNAL clubbed together and made up the purse within an hour after 
the verdict was rendered. (verbatim) (1) 

929 - H Aug. 1; ed:3/2 - A few days ago, says the Pittsburgh CHRONICLE, 
Judge Holt of Cleveland, victor in a libel suit, put the defendant, an 
editor, in a hole by demanding the $200 court award in specie. He got 

a bagful of dimes and will have small change for a year to come. 

"You mistake the location, friend CHRONICLE, The Dimes were forked 
over at Dayton, Ohio." (2) 

930 - H Sept. 23; ed:3/l - The trial of W. H. McCardle, late editor of 
the New Orleans TROPIC, on a charge of libel instituted by Clement De 
Neufbourg, terminated on Sept. 6. The libel consisted in McCardle 's 
charging Neufbourg with inhuman treatment of a slave. The evidence 
presented by the former established the charge in all its enormity; 

thus McCardle, though not acquitted, was also not judged guilty of the 
libel. 

"With such evidence as we have read on this trial, no jury can ever 
be found who will give a verdict for damages, either against Mr. 
McCardle, or any of the other editors who have been prosecuted for their 
expositions of this monstrous cruelty." (3) 

931 - H Dec. 31; ed:2/l - The New York court for the correction of er- 
rors, the highest judicial tribunal of the state, has handed down a de- 
cision against J. F. Cooper, the novelist, who had endeavored to secure 
a judgment, under the unjust New York libel laws, against the widow of 
Col. William L. Stone. 

"Just decision, and a deserved rebuke to the man not content with 
robbing the living by aid of the unjust law of libel as heretofore admin- 
istered in New York, but who thrusts his 'itching palm' into the coffers 
of the dead that be may clutch the 'widow's substance.' Who would take 
Cooper's name for Cooper's fame?" (4) 

LIBRARIES &amp; LIBRARIANS 

H May 28:2/2 - See Horticulture 

932 - H Dec. 18:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "J" says: I ask your 
attention for a moment to the subject of a library for the use of teach- 
ers and scholars of our free schools. About 1,300 children are taught . . . 
in these schools each year, with no chance to procure outside class 
reading books. 

"A Library, not extensive, but well selected, and adapted to the wants 



155

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 933-938 ■:":■:; ■■■.:.. 

LIBRARIES &amp; LIBRARIANS (Cont'd) 

of teachers and scholars, is regarded in our Eastern cities as an essen- 
tial feature of the free school system. It cannot be less important here. 
"The Ladies, always foremost in good works, have recently made a suc- 
cessful effort in behalf of the Academy of Natural Sciences. - Can they 
not make a similar effort to promote a kindred object?" (4) 

933 - H Dec. 31:2/3 - Bethel Reading Room. - The Chaplain's Room, in 
the Commercial Buildings, will be open on Wednesday and Friday evenings 
as a Reading Room. 

The papers of this city and some of eastern and southern cities, the 
SAILOR'S MAGAZINE, the SHEET ANCHOR, the LIGHT SHIP and various 
other publications, together with Naval Histories, etc., will be constantly 
on hand. 

A red light will be suspended from the window as a signal for those 
who wish to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

LIFE INSURANCE. See Insurance 

LIGHTHOUSES 

934 - H May 7:3/1 • It is stated that Lewis Dibble, Esq., has been ap- 
pointed lighthouse keeper at Cleveland in place of R. Hussey, Esq., re- 
moved. Nothing to say. as the rotation is all in the same political 
family. (verbatim) (1) 

LIQUORS, ALCOHOLIC. See Alcoholic Liquors 

LIVE STOCK 

935 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - Sheep. - 500 picked sheep, mostly ewes, for 
sale. Enquire of Theod: Faber, on the dock. (verbatim) (1) 

936 - H Mar. 8; ed:2/4 - B. Stedman, Esq., has slaughtered a Durham 
cow, which weighed 1190 pounds dressed, and a three-year-old heifer by 
the same cow, which weighed 1279 pounds dressed. They were raised by 
E. Ailing, Esq., of Twinsburg. 

"Who can beat this? Take a look at Stedman's market stalls." (1) 

937 - H June 26; adv:3/3 - Came into the enclosure of the subscriber 
about the 1st inst. a small red Cow, large horns, rather low in flesh, 
about six years old, and gives milk. The owner is requested to pay 
charges and take her away. B. P. Beers, Euclid. (verbatim) (I) 

938 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - Lost Cow. Strayed from the subscriber on 
the 18tb inst. A lightish red, young Cow. Information of her where- 
abouts will be suitably rewarded. John E. Lyon. (verbatim) (2) 



156

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 940 - 948 

LIVE STOCK (Cont'd) 

940 - H July 14; adv:2/5 - Strayed or Stolen from the subscriber a Dark 
Brindle cow, 8 years old. She had on, when left, a rope tied around the 
horns and tied in the middle with a small cord - one ear cropped and 
slit ■ the other swallow fork, and some white spots above the bag. Any 
person returning said cow or giving information where she may be found 
shall be suitably rewarded. D. Jones, 37 Water-st. (verbatim) (1) 

H Oct. 27; ed:2/l - See Taxation 

See also Packing Industry f 

LOST &amp; FOUND 

941 - H Jan. 11; adv.2/4 - Lost - on Thursday evening last, somewhere 
near the corner of Ontario and St. Clair Sts., a gold guard chain with 
a clasp upon it. When lost, it was enclosed in a box. The finder will 

be rewarded by leaving it at this office. (verbatim) (1) 

942 - H Jan. 28; adv:2/4 - Spectacles. - Lost, a few days since, a pair 
very valuable to me: Any person returning them will have my hearty 
thanks. John Stoddard. (verbatim) (1) 

943 ■ H Feb. 1:2/5 - Lost - The person who found one of Hunton's Piano 
Books on Euclid st. some two months since will confer a favor by leaving 

it at Brainard's music store. (verbatim) (1) 

944 - H Feb. 7:2/4 - $10.00 Reward! Lost - in the city of Cleveland on 
Tuesday, the 4th inst., a black Morocco wallet containing $53 in bank 
bills. Any person having found the same will receive the above reward 

and thanks of the owner by leaving it at this office, (verbatim) (1) 

945 - H Feb. 7; adv:2/4 - Lost - about two weeks ago, between the new 
bridge and the canal bridge, on Merwin st., as it is supposed, sundry 
papers, among them a lease from Cleveland &amp; Sterling to the Bank of 
Cleveland and an assignment from E. T. Sterling to John M. Sterling. 
If the finder will leave them at the store of Huntington &amp; Brooks he 

will be paid for his trouble. (verbatim) (1) 

946 - H June 3; adv:2/5 - Found • a purse containing money was this day 
left upon our counter. The owner can obtain the same by proving property. 
P. M. Weddell &amp; Son. (verbatim) (1) 

947 - H June 23; adv:2/5 - Lost - a pair of gold spectacles, supposed to 
have been lost in the street near the American House. The finder will 
please leave them at the Firemen's Ins. co's office, and receive a lib- 
eral reward. (verbatim) (1) 

948 - H July 1; adv:2/7 - Lost - A brass mounted buggy lamp, yesterday, 
between my store and house on Kinsman st. on Warrensville road. Any 



157

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 949 - 953 

LOST &amp; FOUND (Cont'd) 

person who may find it and will leave it at my store shall be rewarded. 

0. Cutter (1) 

949 - H July 14; adv:2/6 - Lost - on Saturday last, a gold watch key. 
The finder shall be liberally rewarded by leaving it at. W. &amp; S. Beck- 
with's. (verbatim) (1) 

950 - H July 14; adv:2/5 - Found - Left at No. 78 Superior-st., a black 
lace veil, which was supposed to have dropped from a lady's bonett while 
in the store. It will be delivered to the owner by describing it. 
(verbatim) (1) 

951 - H July 21; adv:2/5 - Lost - Saturday afternoon in Superior st., 
between Seneca and the Public Square, a paper bundle containing a black 
satin vest. The finder, a thick set man with a thin summer dress-coat 
and straw hat, will be liberally rewarded by leaving it, or information 
about it at my store, No. 162 Superior st. (in Cheapside block.) Henry 
Pelrie. (verbatim) (1) 

LOTTERIES. See Gambling &amp; Lotteries 

LYNCHING 

952 - H Apr. 24; ed:2/2 - "The increasing frequency of outrages and 
deaths by violence in the Southern and South-Western States, is truly 
deplorable. 

...Redress of wrongs by law is quite superseded by the law of retalia- 
tion; and unhappily for the well-being of morals and good order in the 
land, the outrages are countenanced and engaged in very often by the in- 
fluential, respectable, and leading members of society. 

"The assertion we know is a sweeping one - would that facts made it 
less true, less alarming, and less disgraceful." " ' (11) 

953 - H July 17; ed:3/l - A gang of drunken white ruffians attacked and 
killed an inoffensive Negro in the streets of Indianapolis, July 4, while 
some 200 spectators calmly watched and refused to interfere. The reason 
assigned by the mob was: "The niggers are getting too cussed thick and 
ought to be thinned out." 

"The fruits of such mob violence are bitter indeed." (3) 

See also Mobs &amp; Riots 



158

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 954 - 958 

PLACEHOLDER

MACHINERY 

954 - H Aug. 18:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Curious" says: During 
a recent visit to Buckstone's lath-cutting establishment along the canal, 
and above the Merwin st., bridge, I saw laths tumbling out at the rate 
of 80 to 100 per minute from a most ingenious machine. I was surprised 
to see that the mechanism was run by a tiny steam engine, more fit to 
run a coffee mill, or rock a cradle. Upon enquiring I found the bore 

to be 3 inches, with a 7-1/2 inch stroke, and 150 revolutions per minute 
at a pressure of 70 lbs. per square inch. It was built by Robert Slade, 
late apprentice at the Cuyahoga Steam furnace. "It does him great 
ere Jit as a workman and mechanic. Gents and Ladies would do well to 
call and see." (3) 

MAGAZINES. See Periodical Publications 

MAIL. See Postal Service 

MAPS &amp; MAP MAKING 

955 - H Nov. 3, adv:2/5 - Morse's UNIVERSAL ATLAS:- This work, now in 
the progress of publication, is designed, when completed, to form one of 
the cheapest, most complete and elegant set of maps in use.- Price 25 
cents each No. For sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

956 - n Nov. 28:2/1 - Cerographic Maps.- Mr. Younglove has received 
No. IV of Morse's valuable series of Cerographic Maps. The contents are 
Texas, Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, and South Carolina. (verbatim) 

(1) 
MARBLE &amp; STONE 

957 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/5 - Eagle Marble Works. At the Eagle Marble Works 
may be found all kinds of work in our line and in the best style, such 

as Monuments, Grave Stones, Obelisks, Table and Stand Tops, Paint Stones, 
Mullers, &amp;c. &amp;c. Our stock consists of as good Foreign and Quarries, or in 
the city of New York. 

To those who wish to purchase, we would just say, call and examine 
before purchasing elsewhere. Prices to correspond with the times. 

Shop directly opposite Miller's Block. 

Business still continued at the old stand in Painesville. C. Morse. 
B. Stuart, Jr. (verbatim) (1) 

958 - H July 1; adv:4/6 - Thos. Jones has just rec'd in addition to his 
former stock, a beautiful lot of Foreign, and a very superior lot of 
American Marble; and would most respectfully invite the public to call 
and examine the same. All who wish to procure any thing in his line of 
business will find it greatly to his advantage to call upon the subscriber 
as he intends to sell it at small advance from Eastern Prices and do his 
work in a style much superior to anything ever offered in this country. 

Pedestals and tombs, all sorts and sizes, made to order on the shortest 
notice. (1) 



159

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 959 - 968 

MARBLE &amp; STONE (Cont'd)

959 - H July 23; adv:2/5 - Cleveland Marble Factory, No. 17 Seneca st. 
Thomas Jones &amp; Sons keep constantly on hand an assortment of the best 

American and Italian Marble, Chimney Pieces, etc., During a period of 

15 years this firm has executed nearly the whole of the marble work in 

the City Cemetery. ,. (2) 

MARKETS &amp; MARKETING 

960 - H Apr, 24:2/4 - The city council on April 22. adopted the report 
of the committee appointed to appraise the market stalls. They appraised 
them at $306. (1) 

MARRIAGE &amp; MARRIAGES 

961 - H Jan. 31:2/4 - Married in Olean, New York, on the 19th inst., by 
the Rev. J. J. Aikin, Frederick Judson Merchant of La Fayette, Ind., 
and Bertha Atkins of Cleveland, Ohio, youngest daughter of Q. F. Atkins, 
Esq. (verbatim) (1) 

962 - H Feb. 21:2/4 - Married in Cleveland, Feb. 13th, by Reverend Dr. 
Aiken, Dr. Rodney Mathews, of Aurora, Portage co., Ohio, to Miss Eliza 
Delamater, daughter of John Delamater, of Cleveland. (verbatim) (1) 

963 - H Feb. 27:2/4 - Marriei on the 25th inst., at St. Johns Church, 
Ohio City, by the Rev. Wm. Burton, Dr. Anderson Hull, of Richland Co., 
to Miss Juliet A., Youngest daughter of Morris Jackson, of the "Hermit- 
age." (verbatim) (1) 

964 - H Mar. 12:3/3 - Married in Christ's Church, in Huron, 0., on the 
6th inst., by the Rev. Samuel Marks, Mr. James S. Griffith, of Ohio City, 
to Miss Sarah E., daughter of T. Jackson, Esq., of the former place, 
(verbatim) (1) 

965 - H Mar. 13:2/4 - Married in Austinburgh, Ashtabula co., March 4th, 
by Reverend Mr. Streeter, Wm. R. Walker, M.D., of Cleveland, to Miss 
Eliza Ann, daughter of Joseph French, of the former place. (verbatim) 

(1) 

966 - H Mar. 25:2/4 - Married in this city, March 25th, by Rev. Dr. S. C. 
Aiken, Mr. William W. Leland, to Maria Abigail, daughter of Judge Eben 
Hosmer, of Newburgh. (verbatim) (1) 

967 - H Mar. 26:2/4 - Married at Hopkinsville, Warren co., by the Rev. 
Mr. Killen of Cincinnati, Mr. John Powell of this city, to Miss Sarah T., 
daughter of the late Hon. Eliab Latham formerly of Gray, Maine, 
(verbatim) (1) 

968 - H Apr. 1:2/4 - Married in Brooklyn Centre, March 23th, by B. Santell 
Esq., Mr. Lewis Fowls of Middleburgh, to Miss Hannah Fish, youngest 
daughter of Eben'r Fish of Brooklyn. 

If fate should bless this happy pair 
And crown their utmost wishes, 



160

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 969 - 976 

MARRIAGE &amp; MARRIAGES (Cont'd) 

Who'd be surprised one day to see 
Some little Fowls and Fishes. (verbatim) (1) 

969 - H May 20:2/3 • Married at Chagrin Falls, on the 20th inst., by 
Elden A. S. Hayden, Dr. Iram Allen of Detroit, to Elizabeth, daughter 

of Elder Wm. Hayden, of Chagrin Falls. (verbatim) (1) 

970 - H July 8:2/3 • In a letter to the editor, "J-S" says: The orders 
and rules of society have now become so straightened that a plain, un- 
sophisticated man has no opportunity of smoothing his rougher nature by 
association with the fairer portion of creation. Honesty and attention 
to the duties of life are no passports to the educated circle. "And as 
all would like not ever to live a single life, yet cannot afford to keep 
a blooded horse, the establishment of an office for negotiating marriages 
would certainly meet with patronage." (5) 

971 - H July 26:2/4 - Married at Andover, on the 24th inst., by Rev. Mr. 
Miller, Aaron Clark, of Cleveland, Ohio, and Caroline Elizabeth, only 
daughter of Cyrus Bingham, Esq. (1) 

972 - H Sept. 12:2/3 - Married in Brooklyn, L. I., on Wednesday, the 27th 
of August, by the Rev. James Otterman, T. N. Bond, of this city, and 
Miss Mary C, daughter of P. Jones, Esq., of the former place, 
(verbatim) (I) 

973 - H Sept. 20:2/3 - Married in St. James" Church, Painesville, on the 
17th inst., by Rev. Charles B. Stout, the Rev. Henry Tullidge, Rector of 
St. Paul's Church, Erie, Pa., to Miss Mary Ann, eldest daughter of Ezra 
Foote, Esq. (verbatim) (1) 

974 - H Oct. 16:2/4 • Married in Rockport, this morning, Oct. 16, by the 
Rev. Mr, Clarke, of Willoughby, Mr. Elijah Murray, of Willoughby, and 
Miss Lucy F., youngest daughter of Royal Millard, Esq., of Rockport. 
(verbatim) (1) 

975 - H Dec. 27:2/4 - Married on the morning of the 22d inst., by Rev. E. 
Buckingham, Mr. J. A. White, of Cleveland, to Miss Mary Louisa, youngest 
daughter of the Late dec'd Denman, Esq., of Roscoe, Coshocton, co., Ohio, 
(verbatim) (I) 

See also Divorce &amp; Alimony 

MATHEMATICS 

976 - H July 26; adv:2/5 - A Great Discovery in the Power of Numbers, in 
which Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication and Division can be executed 
with astonishing rapidity. This new system, taught in two short lessons, 



161

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 977 - 981 

MATHEMATICS (Cont'd) 

by P. M, Deshong at the Pittsburgh House, where he will be happy to 
receive any gentleman desiring to acquaint himself with this very 
excellent mode of calculation. Those who feel interested are respect- 
fully invited to call and see for themselves. 

Terms $3 per Scholar. (1) 

977 - H Aug. 2; ed:3/l - Young Deshong 's "Great discovery in the science 
of numbers," turns out to be a great humbug, and the public should be 

on their guard or they will suffer by the imposter. (verbatim) (1) 

MEAT 

978 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, a resolu- 
tion was passed that no meat licenses east of River st., be granted. The 
committee on markets reported adverse to the petition of Francis Raymond 

to sell meats. (1) 

979 - H Aug. 27:2/2 • Here is the English way of curing hams, certainly 
novel in America: The ham is cured in a brine of salt, saltpetre, and 

a mixture of aromatic herbs, made up of a few bay leaves, wild thyme, 
and a handful of juniper berries and garlic. It is steeped for six 
weeks, then dried in the smoke of a wood fire. When wanted for dress- 
ing, it is buried in the ground for 24 hours, and then boiled with an 
addition of aromatic herbs. After boiling, the bone is taken out and 
the ham is pressed under a heavy weight. As a corallary to the dress- 
ing, it miy be added, the ham disappears at one sitting. (3) 

See also Packing Industry 

MEDICAL PROFESSION 

980 - H Jan, 3; adv:4/3 • Infirmary Doctors Hewitt &amp; Ackley, would respect- 
fully inform the citizens of Cleveland ani surrounding country that their 
connection formed some five years since, for the practice of Physic and 
Surgery, still continues, and recently they have made the most ample 
provision for the accommodation of patients that may come a distance, hav- 
ing established a private Infirmary and Boarding House for the convenience 
of Invalids exclusively. They pledge themselves that nothing like quackery 
or deception shall be practiced upon the patients. (3) 

981 - H July 1; adv:4/6 - Drs. Adams &amp; Hoyt respectfully inform the 
Citizens of Cleveland and the adjacent country that they have formed a 
connection in the practice of Medicine and Surgery. Their patients will 
have the advantage of the recent great improvements in medicine, as they 
pursue strictly the Homeopathic method in their practice. This method 
which is so rapidly superseding the use and destructive practice of 
bleeding, purging, blistering and salivation, has invariably been found 
by those who have adopted it to meet the hopes and expectations of the 
most sanguine. 

Those wishing information upon the subject will please call at their 
office, on the corner of Superior st. and the public square. (verbatim) ' 

(1) 



162

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 982-987 

MEDICAL PROFESSION (Cont'd) 

982 - H July 2; adv:3/4 - Drs. H, &amp; A. Everett's Eye Infirmary. From the 
extensive practice, unrivalled success, and solicitations of our friends 
here and abroad, we are induced to keep a regular Infirmary. Office 
Miller's Block, Second Story. Our system of treating, differs much from 
the usual manner. Dr. A. E., of late has had the advantage of Eastern 
Infirmaries and Hospitals, consequently is confident that we stand un- 
rivalled in this country. " ■ 

All surgical operations for the benefit and appearance of the eye, are 
performed with skill and care, viz Strabismus (or cross eye). Cataract, 
Artificial Pupil, inserting of Artificial eyes, &amp;c. &amp;c. 

Infirmary Boarding House, situated in a beautiful and healthy part of 
the city, on Ontario-st., 1st door north of the Farmers Block where all 
attendence will be given to patients from country or distance. (3) 

983 - H Sept. 22; ed:2/3 - Our thoughts are often turned to contemplate the 
life and character of the medical men - the doctors who work day and night, 
ceaselessly serving their respective communities, often rendering services 
for which pay in money is all too inadequate. We contemplate, too, their 
death-rate, which is the highest in the professional ranks; and the dangers 
of their calling. 

"All these considerations, and a thousand others that we might name, 
ought to make everbody respect the physician who is worthy to fill the 
high and responsible duties of his peculiar calling." (4) 

984 - H Nov. 21; adv:2/4 - Dr. Adams, who is about to leave the city, begs 
leave to introduce to the Cleveland public, in his stead, Dr. John Wheeler, 
meJical graduate of Dartmouth College, and a Fellow of the Medical College 
at New York City. Dr. Wheeler has for 20 years practiced according to 
allopathic methods, and will take Dr. Adams' old offices, over T. N. Bond 

&amp; Co.'s store, corner of Superior st. and the Square. (2) 

985 • H Dec. 2; adv;2/5 • Dr. Hoyt respectfully informs the citizens of 
Cleveland and the adjacent country, that he still continues the practice 
of Physic. His patients will have the advantage of the great improve- 
ment in the science of Medicine, as he pursues strictly the Homeopathic 
method of practice. 

Office - first brick building east of Dr. Strickland's dwelling, and , •, 
the second west of his old stand at the corner of the Public Square, 
Superior st. (1) 

986 - H Dec. 17; adv:2/5 - Dr. Miller tenders his professional services to 
the citizens of Cleveland and vicinity. For the last 20 years he has had 
an extensive practice in the interior of the state; and by strict attention 
to business, he is determined to merit a share of public patronage. Office 
and Residence, No. 5 Public Square. Second door north from Bond's Store. 

(2) 

Medical Colleges 

987 - H Jan. 6; ed:3/l • On Jan. 1 and 2 the Ohio senate received memorials 



163

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 988 - 992 

MEDICAL PROFESSION - Medical Colleges (Cont'd) 

which were presented by the medical department of the Western Reserve col- 
lege, and from the trustees of the Western Reserve college, praying that the 
auction duties of the county of Cuyahoga may be applied to the benefit of 
said medical college. They were referred to the committee on medical col- 
leges. 

"It is to be hoped that the prayer of the memorialists will be granted." 

(1) 

988 - H Jan. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 3, the general 
assembly was requested to appropriate funds to aid the medical college. 

(1) 

989 - H Jan. 7; ed:3/l - The HERALD yesterday printed the news that a 
m3morial had been presented to the state legislature, praying for the appro- 
priation of the auction duties of Cuyahoga county for the use of Western Re- 
serve medical college. 

"The stability and success of this branch of the W. R. College is no 
longer a matter of contingency. In operation, with a class of One Hun- 
dred and Eleven Students, sustained by the public, the great body of in- 
telligent Physicians, and the mother College, it has become emphatically 
the medical School of Northern Ohio; as that at Cincinnati long has been 
of the Southern portion of our State, 

"Hitherto it has been supported by individual aid and patronage, but it 
has strong claims for aid from the Legislature 

"We can, therefore, ask as a matter of justice for the small Auction 
Duty of this County. 

"While we would insist that the Cleveland Medical School be thus sus- 
tained, we hope our friends in the Legislature will continue to pursue the 
same liberal course of policy towards the institutions in other parts of the 
State, for which our Northern members have hitherto been distinguished." 

(6) 

990 - H Jan. 9; ed:3/l - The Western Reserve catalogue for 1844-5 shows 
a total of 226 students in attendance. 

"The medical Department of the College established in this city, offers 
very superior advantages to the Medical student. The Professorships are 
filled by able, experienced and practical men, ani the course of lectures 
fully equals those in the old and most popular Medical Colleges of the 
country." (15) 

991 - H Feb. 14:2/3 - Willoughby Medical College. The Annual Commence- 
ment will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 25th, in the Brick Church at Willoughby. 
The exercises will commence at 10 A.M. 

Tiie Public, and especially Physicians, are respectfully invited to be 
present. R. H. Paddock, Dean of the Faculty. Willoughby, Feb. 13, 1845. 
(verbatim) (1) 

992 - H Feb. 19:2/3 - At a meeting of the class of the Cleveland Medical 
college on Feb. 13, in this city for the purpose of expressing their 



164

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 993 - 996 

MEDICAL PROFESSION - Medical Colleges (Cont'd) 

sense of the course of instruction just concluded by Prof. J. J. Delamater, 

Parley Dickenson was called to the chair and James M. Newman was appointed 

secretary. 

The following resolutions were adopted: Resolved, That in our opinion 
Dr. Delamater, has shown himself to be a thorough anatomist and Physiol- 
ogist, an able lecturer, and a competent and instructive teacher, and we 
take pleasure in attesting the high satisfaction we have received from 
listening to his instructions; resolved. That in parting with Dr. Delamater, 
we tender him our warmest thanks for the able manner in which he has per- 
formed the duties pertaining to the chair, and for the gentlemanly treatment 
of the class. 

On motion it was resolved. That a copy of these resolutions, with the 
proceedings of this meeting, be signed by the officers and transmitted to 
Professor Delamater, and, also, that the same be published in the city 
papers. Parley Dickenson, chairman; Jas. M. Newman, secretary. (4) 

993 - H Feb. 19:2/4 - The annual commencement exercises of the Cleveland 
Medical college will occur, Wednesday, Feb. 26, at ten a.m. in the Baptist 
church on Seneca st. Physicians and the public generally are respectfully 
invited to attend. 

An address will be delivered by President Pierce of Western Reserve 
college. (1) 

994 - H Feb. 20; adv:2/4 - The Valedictory Address of the Members of the 
Medical Lyceum, will be delivered by B. S. Taylor, on Friday evening at 
the Wesleyan Church on Euclid-st. 

The public are respectfully invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

995 • H Feb. 21:2/4 - Cleveland Medical College. 

The Annual Commencement of this institution will occur on Wednesday, 
Feb. 26th, at 10 A.M., in the Baptist Church, on Seneca st. Physicians, 
and the public generally are respectfully invited to attend. An address 
will be delivered by President Pierce, of Western Reserve College, 
(verbatim) (1) 

996 - H Feb. 27; ed:2/l - We have rarely passed a more agreeable two hours 
than in listening to the commencement exercises of the medical college in 
this city yesterday. 

The day was fine, and the Baptist church, in which the commencement 
was held, was filled with our most intelligent and respectable citizens 
and visitors. 

After some fine music by the choir and an eloquent prayer by the Rev. 
Mr. Walden, the audience was adJressed by President Pierce of Western 
Reserve college. He spoke of the origin, progress, and prospects of 
Western Reserve college of which the medical institution of our own city 
is a branch. 

Twenty five medical students were graduated with the degree of Doctor 
of Medicine. 



165

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 997 - 1000 

MEDICAL PROFESSION - Medical Colleges (Cont'd) 

Professor Delamaler, dean of the faculty, spoke on the condition 

and prospects of the medical college, which was in the highest degree 

gratifying. 

The institution has been in existence but two years. The number of 

students in regular attendance this winter has been 112. 

"The success of the Cleveland Medical College is now no longer a 

problem. It has stood the surest of all tests, experience, and the 

results have been beyond the expectations of the most sanguine." (15) 

997 - H Feb. 27:3/3 - At a meeting of the medical class of Western Reserve 
ccllege on Feb. 25, H. R. Sheldon was called to the chair and D. G. 
Stratton was appointed secretary. 

The following resolutions were adopted: That, for the benefit of those 
who have any predilections for this school, we feel it our duty to state 
that we have listened to the lectures of the several professors with 
great interest, profit, and perfect satisfaction- 
Resolved, That we believe that nothing that would have enhanced the 
value of the course of instructions has been left undone by any of the 
professors. (5) 

998 - H June 2:3/1 - The medical college now under contract to be built 
in this city, is worthy of notice. The location is one of the most 
eligible in the city. It is on Erie, at the head of St. Clair st. The 
building which will measure 86 feet by 57 feet, will be of brick and 
will be finished by Oct. 25. 

When erected, the college will be an honor to the flourishing Cleve- 
land Medi&lt;al institution and an ornament to our city. It will add to the 
well established reputation of the architect, John M. Brown, and the 
enterprising builders, E. H. Lacey, John U. Brown, and Perley Abbey. 

(10) 

999 - H Sept. 24; ed:3/l - We are pleased to be able to assure the public 
that the new Cleveland medical college edifice will be in readiness for 
the opening of Ihe November term of the institution. The faculty, with 
characteristic liberality, yesterday made a subscription of $2,000 for 
the building, which assures its completion. 

"The liberal city, like the liberal man, deviseth liberal things." (2) 

1000 - H Oct. 4; adv:2/5 - Cleveland Medical College. Established in 1843, 
John Delamater, Dean. The annual course of lectures in this institution 
will begin on Wednesday, November 5. 

The faculty comprises: John Delamater, M.D., Professor of Midwifery 
and female diseases; Jared P. Kirtland, M.D., Professor of the Theory of 
Physic; Noah Worcester, M.D., General Pathology; Horace A. Ackley, M.D., 
Prof, of Surgery; John L. Cassells, M.D., Materia Medica, and Pharmacy 
and Botany; Samuel St. John, M.D., Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence; 
Jacob J. DeLamater, M.D., General Anatomy and Physiology. 

Last year the school enrolled 112, the year before, 67. Average cost 
of matriculation for the winter is $81. (9) 



166

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1001 - 1005 

MEDICAL PROFESSION - Medical Colleges (Cont'd) 

1001 - H Oct. 8; ed:3/l - The new edifice in which the Cleveland Medical 
college will house its instructors and students, beginning with the fall 
lecture term on Nov. 5, is well and centrally located, on the corner of 
Erie and St. Clair sts., and is an ornament to the city. It was designed 
by J. Brown, architect, to whom great credit is due. Its size is so 
great, and its rooms so apportioned that it will comfortably house all 

of the school's departments for years to come. The airy lecture rooms 
will accommodate 450 or more in complete comfort, and the school itself 
is perhaps the most commodious and complete of any building, for similar 
purposes, in the country. The building is 88 feet by 58 feet, and four 
and one-half stories high. 

It is a source of much satisfaction to us, (for we have from the begin- 
ning looked with interest upon the effort to establish a medical school 
here of a high grade) to be able to assure the public that there is every 
indication of prosperity to this school in the future. It is believed by 
all well acquainted with the faculty, and the means of illustration at 
their disposal, that no yourig man who diligently avails himself of the 
opportunities here offered, need fear competition with the students or 
graduates of any other medical college in the country. (17) 

1002 - H Oct. 8; adv:3/3,4 - Clevt-land Medical College. New apparatus 
has been added; the new buiiding on the corner of St. Clair and Erie sts. 
is ready for occupancy (unrivalled by any building west of the Eastern 
cities), and the faculty of six, under J^hn Delamater are prepared to 
offer excellent medical instruction, thev being all practicing physicians. 

(16) 

1003 - H Oct. 21; adv:2/5 - Willoughby Medical College. The Introductory 
Lecture to the 1845-6 session will be given at the Brick Church at 
Willoughby on Wednesday, November 5, by Professor Abner H. Brown. The 
Lecture session will continue 16 weeks. Fees for all lectures - $55. 
Matriculation - $30. Graduation - $18. 

The faculty: R. H. Paddock, M.D. , Prof, of Anatomy and Physiology, 
and Dean of the School; Amasa Trowbridge, M.D., Prof, of Surgery; Geo. 
M. Cook, M.D. , Adjunct Prof, of Surgery; H. M. Childs, M.D., Prof, of 
Obstetrics; John Butterfield, M.D., Prof, of Pathology and Practice; T, 
R. Spench, M.D., Prof, of Mat. Med.; Abner H. Brown, M.D., Prof, of 
Chemistry; I. V. Allen, M.D., Prof, of Medical Jurisprudence, and J. W. 
Brown, M.D., Anatomy. (3) 

1004 - H Nov. 4:3/1 - The introductory lecture at the Cleveland Medical 
college will be delivered at two p.m. tomorrow in the basement of the 
Stone church by Professor Kirtland. The faculty proposes to use one of 
the large rooms of the new college building as a museum of natural 
history, and at popular lecture room, as well as for the regular college 
discourses. (3) 

1005 - H Nov. 4; ed:3/I - Medical lectures. - The Course of Medical Lec- 
tures will commence Thursday, the 5th inst., in the Lecture Rooms of the 



167

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1006 ■ 1010 

PLACEHOLDER

MEDICAL PROFESSION - Medical Colleges 

new College edifice. The Class of Students will be large, and the 
course opens under very flattering auspices. The able and experienced 
Professors will devote their time and best energies to the several De- 
partments of the institution, and the advantages enjoyed by Students in 
the Cleveland Medical College are not excelled in the West. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1006 - H Dec. 12:2/2,3 -In a letter to the editor, "G" says: "Our city 
was this morning enlivened by the presence, and our Medical College hon- 
ored by the attendance of a large number of students from the Willoughby 
Institution. - The object of this visit was doubtless to enjoy the fine 
sleighing with which this region is at present favored - to exhibit their 
friendly feelings and good will, and compare the advantages of our 
Institution with those of their own.... 

"The students from Willoughby were generally fine looking young gen- 
tlemen, who will doubtless prove an honor to the Medical profession, 
and it is hoped and believed that they do not entertain the spirit of 
hostility which seems to exist in the minds of the Trustees of their 
school against this Institution." (8) 

See also Medicine &amp; Surgery 

MEDICINE &amp; SURGERY 

1007 - H Oct. 11; adv:2/5 - The Use of Water for the prevention and cure 
of Diseases. A practical knowledge of Body and Mind is essential to the 
happiness of all. Hicks' &amp; Miner's Patent Portable Vapor Baths, Con- 
structed in an Improved and Superior Style: For giving the ordinary 
Warm Bath in private families. Also, for administering Medicines in 
form of Vapor, for the cure of Cutaneous &amp; other morbid affections of 
the Body. Can be used as a vapor cure or medicine bath applicator. 

Price, $25 complete. M inufactured by II. P. Hopkins, Cleveland, 0. (9) 

1008 - H Nov. 14:2/1 - The following surgical operations were performed 
before the class and spectators at the Cleveland medical college on 
Nov. 12 by Professor Ackley: ptosis (falling down of eyelid), deform- 
ity remedied; strabismus (squinting), deformity remedied; cheloid tumor 
a very rare disease. The patient was a lady on whom the tumor had 
grown after a previous operation. This last operation will no doubt 
prevent any subsequent return of the growth. The tumor was preserved 
for the morbid anatomy collection. 

Operations are conducted every Wednesday gratuitously. Numerous 
interesting cases are expected during the winter and will be duly 
reported on. (3) 

1009 - H Dec. 6:2/2 - Professor Ackley performed the following operations 
at the Cleveland Medical college on Dec. 3: an encysted tumor; restoring 
of a severely burned hand to movement. 

Surgical operations are made every Wednesday, gratis. (2) 

1010 - H Dec. 15:3/1 - A very delicate operation was performed at the 



168

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1011 - 1014 

MEDICINE &amp; SURGERY (Cont'd) 

Medical college on Dec. 13 by Professor Ackley, assisted by Drs. Delam- 
ater, Terry, and Hewitt. The patient was a man having a large fibrous 
tumor on his lower jaw. It was necessary to remove the entire bone. 

A large number of spectators were present, besides the regular 
medical class. (6) 

1011 - H Dec. 20:2/1 - Surgical. - The following Surgical operations were 
made by Prof. Ackley, at the Cleveland Medical College on Wednesday after- 
noon, December 17th. 

Pterygium - a peculiar condition of the conjunctiva. One case of 
Strabismus - both eyes operated upon. One case of Strabismus - one 
eye only operated upon. Ectropion - eversion of both eyelids, of long 
standing; operation successful - lids restored. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Diseases; Medical Profession 
MEN'S WEAR. See Clothing Trade 
MENTAL DISEASES 

Asylums 

1012 - H Feb. 18; ed:3/l,2 • One of the proudest monuments which Ohio has 
reared to the cause of heaven-blessed philanthropy, is her asylum for 

the insane. Under the supervision of Dr. Awl the asylum has signally 
prospered, and the fostering beneficence of the state has been bounti- 
fully repaid in the restoration of sane minds to hundreds of mental 
wanderers. 

Here you find those who have left the partners of their lives and the 
fond prattle of children; old fathers and mothers with the frosts of age 
upon their brows; statesmen and pastors. From one member of these varied 
but interesting groups, the subjoined epistle has been received. "Should 
it succeed in exciting by a small portion of the gratitude felt by the 
gentle writer in her simple and eloquent language to 'the Giver of every 
good and perfect gift,' or call the attention of some benevolent mind to 
the rapid improvements and growth of this class of institutions and their 
noble conductors, the notices leading to its publicity will be gratified." 

(20) 
MESMERISM 

1013 - H Jan. 9; ed:3/l - Mesmerism. - Harriet Martineau the well-known 
author, has published to the world that she has been cured of a dangerous 
disorder by the use of Mesmerism. The statement is certified to by 

Wm. Howitt. (1) 

MILITIA .;: ;; 

H Jan. 25; ed:2/l - See Banks &amp; Banking 

1014 - H June 6; ed:2/l - The German City Guards, Captain Silberg, paraded 



169

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1015 - 1020 

MILITIA (Cont'd) 

today, and made a fine martial appearance, with their neat, showy uniforms, 

nodding plumes, and glittering arms. 

"The corps, recently organized, is composed of our spirited young German 
citizens, who exhibit a laudable pride in adding their strength to the right 
arm of the nation's defense." (1) 

1015 - H Sept. 1:3/3 - Military. The young men of this city, desirous of 
forming an Independent Military Company, are requested to meet at the Mer- 
chant's Hotel on Wednesday at 7 p.m. S. S. Stone, S. Clary, J. A. White, 
H. Harrington, A. G. Lawrence. (1) 

1016 - H Oct, 3; ed:2/l - Enthusiastic General Hinton, commander of a 
brigade of Ohio militia, who offered the services of his company in the 
threatened Mexican war, has received the consoling reply that his name 
"will be entered on the list of candidates for military service" • this 
from the war department. 

"Our militia musters are admirably calculated to fire commanding 
officers with a war spirit, if the onslaught be only on an inviting water- 
melon patch." (3) 

1017 - H Nov. 7; ed:2/2 - The OHIO STATESMAN hails the presence of 
General Hinton of Delaware in Ohio. 

"Our Western Court Journal has omitted to mention whether the 'distin- 
guished stranger' has yet obtained marching orders to Mexico for the 
valorous BrigaJe of Ohio Militia he has the honor to command - a service 
tendered in due form to the President by Gen. H. and his brave subordinates 
when the Mexican war looked like paying pretty well." (2) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion; United States Army 

MINING &amp; MINERALS 

1018 - H Aug. 28; ed:2/2 - According to geologists, diamonds have been dis- 
covered in the Mexican range in the Sierra Madre, to the southwest of 
Mexico City. 

"They are principally in the possession of wild tribes, a circumstance 
which accelerates the intrusion of North Americans, and hastens the taking 
possession of them by strangers." (2) 

1019 - H Dec. 19:2/2 - The Ohio house of representatives has before it a 
bill for the incorporation of the Cuyahoga Copper Mining and Smithing co., 
in accordance with the petition of Charles Whittlesey. The measure has 
been referred to the committee on corporations. (1) 

See also Coal 

MISSING PERSONS 

1020 - H Sept. 30; adv:3/2 - Information Wanted! William C. Smith, car- 
penter and joiner employed by Milo Hickox, who returned to Cleveland on 
Sept. 26 after having worked in Canada several months, disappeared 



170

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1021 - 1025 

MISSING PERSONS fCont'd) 

yesterday, being seen last at Mrs. White's boarding house on Chestnut 

St., where his wife stayed in his absence. He is aged 27 years, stature 

about five feet, ten inches, stout built, temperate habits, dark hair. 

Had on full black cloth coat and pantaloons. Information should be left 

at post office or at the boarding house. (4) 

1021 - H Oct. 21; adv:2/5 - Information Wanted, about John Benedict or his 
place of residence; formerly of Old Scipio, Cayuga county, N. Y., and 
supposed to be living now in or near Cuyahoga county. This information 
is wanted by his mother, who is proceeding on her journey to see him, 

but has lost her directions and his definite address. Send news to Rev. 

B. K. Maltby of Cleveland. (1) 

1022 • H Oct. 22:3/1 - Girl Lost-On Saturday evening last a little before 
five o'clock, a little colored girl started to go to a store on Water 
street, and was seen before dark playing with some little girls on 

Water street, since which she has not been seen by her friends. She 
was nine years of age, her name is Mary Livingston, and had on a light 
calico dress, dark merino shawl, and sun-bonnet. Any information con- 
cerning her will be thankfully received at 10 Orange Lane. (verbatim) 

(1) 

MOBS &amp; RIOTS 

1023 - H July 29; ed:3/l - Mobs in Columbus are molesting and threatening 
all black men following the attack of a 13 year-old Negro boy on a five 
year-old white girl. 

"We regret to see by the STATE JOURNAL, mob indications at Columbus." 

(2) 

1024 - H Aug. 27; ed:2/l - We learn from the Lexington ENQUIRER that a 
mob of "respectable" Kentuckians attacked several free negroes and tarred 
and feathered them in the public square yesterday in the same town in 
which Cassius Clay was forced to leave several days ago. 

"This is just as might have been expected, from the proceedings of 
respectable mobocrats in Lexington on Monday, the 18th inst. They set 
an example for mobocrats of the 'baser sort' to follow 

"Did the Sheriff, or Marshal, or Constable, or Mayor of the city of 
Lexington, take any cognizance of the mobocratic proceedings of those 
who hold 'an enviable position in society, ' on the day that the rights 
of C. M. Clay were violated, and his property sent out of the State?.... 
Oh shame, Kentuckians! You have disgraced the land of Boon!" (7) 

1025 - H Sept. 8; ed:3/l - We have noticed quite as many riots in Montreal 
during the present season as in all the cities of the union put together. 
Just a few weeks ago a clergyman was stoned for speaking in the streets 
and the militia had to be called to quell the mob. Yet Canadian editors 
criticize American cities for their frequent uprisings. 

"Montreal Editors should be careful how they throw stones at Yankee 
rioters, for their own house is glass all round." (3) 



171

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1026 - 1024 

MOBS &amp; RIOTS (Cont'd) 

H Sept. 19; ed:2/l,2 • See Newspapers 

H Oct. 29; ed:3/l - See Newspapers 

See also Lynching; Slavery 

MONEY 

1026 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/2 - Jesse Smith &amp; Sons, Exchange Dealers, No. 7 
Central Buildings. Former office of the Bank of Cleveland. Jesse Smith, 
Drew Smith, Henry Smith. (1) 

1027 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - H. F. Brayton &amp; Co. Exchange Brokers, No. 4 
Merchants' Exchange. Gold, Silver, Eastern Funds and uncurrent money 
bought and sold. (1) 

1028 - H May 5; ed:3/l - Our friends of the Buffalo COMMERCIAL were in- 
correctly informed in regard to mob demonstrations on the Exchange Office 
of Messrs. Smiths. Although some excitement was caused by the suspension, 
nothing like violence was indicated. Cleveland is not a mob city, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1029 - H May 5; ed:2/l - On May 3 Jesse Smith and Sons paid a considerable 
portion of the depositors in their exchange office in this city, and we 
understand they are making arrangements to pay all depositors. They have 
not made an assignment, but purpose to arrange and settle their affairs as 
fast as means and circumstances permit. 

"The suspension of the Messrs. Smiths and the Bank of St. Clair, is 
one of the most disastrous failures that has ever occurred in the West." 

(8) 

1030 - H July 1; adv: 3/5 - Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank. Wanted For 
Goods. A. Sackett. (1) 

1031 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 ■ Jesse Smith &amp; Sons, Exchange Dealers, No. 7 
Central Buildings, Cleveland, Ohio. Former office of the Bank of Cleve- 
land. Jesse Smith, Oren Smith, Henry Smith. (1) 

1032 - H July 12:3/1 - Bank Matters. - The bank of Wooster has been made 
one of the government depositories. 

The Cleveland city bank has commenced issuing notes. We have seen the 
ones and threes, and they look decidedly better than most of the circula- 
tion we have had for years past. (verbatim) (1) 

1033 - H July 25:3/2 - Alfred Kelley has been chosen as a member of the 
board of control of the newly organized State bank. A portion of the 
paper is to be delivered in this city by Aug. 10, of the denominations of 
ones, threes, fives, and tens. (3) 

1034 - H July 26; ed:2/l - The notes of all the free banks are to have a 
uniformity of design. They are to be registered by R. Hume, jr. The 



172

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1035 - 1038 

MONEY (Cont'd) 

The ones have Governor Worthington on the left, and Governor McArthur 
on the right; the threes have Governor Tiffin in the center and Gover- 
nor Morrow on the right; the fives have Henry Clay on the left, and Gov- 
ernor Corwin on the right, the tens have Governor Vance and General 
Harrison; and the twenties have General Jackson and John Q. Adams. 

"It strikes us that it would have been better taste to have just no 
portraits on the bill, except the likenesses of Ohio's Governors, and 
to have taken them from the earliest down to the present incumbent." (8) 

1035 - H July 29; ed:3/2 - The Cincinnati CHRONICLE states that the 
American coinage system is the best in the world because it is based on 
a decimal system. This paper urges that foreign coins now in use in the 
U.S. be used less and less, as the shillings and six-pences are confus- 
ing and awkward in business. 

'The new Postage regulations will be very apt to drive these out- "^ 
landish coins out of circulation, if the people help the matter along 
as they may." (4) 

1036 - H Oct. 30; ed:2/2 - The Norwalk REFLECTOR warns against accept- 
ance of Plainfield (New Jersey) and Lehigh county, Pennsylvania bank 
notes. Both have little or no credit in Pennsylvania and are not even 
quoted in most bank note lists, 

"Some of the Banks and Brokers in this City take it, but others do 
not, and the nimble manner in which money dealers keep both Plainfield 
and Lehigh moving, should be a sufficient caution to the people not to 
take either. Ohio can now have the best of Bank currency - a home 
currency at all times convertible - if the business men and people 
generally will but set their faces against the circulation of worthless 
trash, come from what quarter it may." (4) 

1037 - H Nov. 28; ed:2/3,4 - The new Ohio state bank notes are soon to be 
in circulation. The denominations thus far ordered printed are: Ones, 
threes, fives, tens, and 50's. One characteristic will be found in all; 
namely, the Ohio coat of arms, in the center vignette. 

As a protection against counterfeiters, the amount of each bill is 
printed in white on a rediish orange colored background, impervious to 
extraction; on the face of each, there is a human figure engraved in the 
vignette for each one dollar of denomination. Thus, the one dollar bill 
has one human figure, the ten dollar bill, ten, etc. 

"The impressions we have seen (being the I's, 3's, 5's and lO's) are 
admirable specimens of engraving, and would seem to us next to impossible 
to be counterfeited. Competent judges have pronounced them the best 
executed bank notes tbey have ever seen." (5) 

1038 - H Dec. 27:2/4 • City Orders - Orders on the Treasurer of Ohio ■,,:,. 
City. Orders on the Treasurer of Cleveland. Also - County Orders for 
sale by T. P, Handy. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Banks &amp; Banking 



173

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1039 - 1043 

PLACEHOLDER

MUSEUMS &amp; GALLERIES

1039 - H Nov. 10; ed:3/I - The Cleveland medical faculty has tendered a 
splendid cabinet of specimens of natural curiosities to our citizens, 
and we are glad to see that the offer is not disregarded. A meeting of 
young men is called for tomorrow evening at the council room. 

"Let every young man be present, and when we say young we mean every 
man who did not take part in the Revolution." (3) 

1040 - H Nov. 13:2/4 - The ladies of this city will meet at the Empire 
Hall, on Saturday afternoon at 3 P.M., to take measures for raising a 
fund for the benefit of the Museum of Natural Science. It is hoped 
that all the Ladies will interest themselves in an object so worthy of 
patronage. (verbatim) (1) 

1041 - H Nov. 19:2/2 - The meeting called to organize the Academy of 
Natural Science was held yesterday at council hall with George F. Mar- 
shall presiding. Resolutions were passed thanking Professors Kirtland, 
Cassels, and St. John of the medical college for the gift of museum pieces 
tendered the city and it was decided by a vote to organize a local academy 
of science to utilize properly and care for the natural history collection. 
To this end, William Case, M. C. Younglove, H. C. Kingsley, F. W. Bingham, 
and James M. Hoyt were appointed a committee to prepare a constitution for 
the academy and the afore-mentioned professors named its life-long curators 
and directors. 

Thanks were also voted to Elisha Whittlesey, who has offered his services 
in the procurement of a collection of birds and other natural curiosities, 
gathered by a Mr. Douglass, a purser in the U.S. Navy. 

Another meeting is scheduled for Nov. 24. (10) 

H Nov. 25:3/1 - See Organizations - Cultural 

1042 - H Nov. 27:3/1 - The ladies of Cleveland will prepare a supper at 
Empire hall today for the benefit of the Cleveland Academy of Natural 
Science. Tickets one dollar per person. The entire proceeds will go 
toward the upkeep of the fine collection of natural history specimens 
donated to the city recently. 

Gentlemen appointed as carvers will please be at the hall promptly. 
Doors open at seven. Supper served at eight p.m. (5) 

1043 - H Nov. 29:2/2 - Cleveland citizens, anxious to aid in the estab- 
lishment of a free museum of natural history, trooped continually into 
the Empire hall, Nov. 27, and nobly partook of the tempting viands and 
cocoanut pyramids, the cakes, white as driven snow, and the oyster, all 
prepared by the gracious ladies of the city. Numerous gifts were exhib- 
ited, and auctioned off at good prices; flowers from Elliott, (in good 
taste, since he is a bachelor); magnificent sugar cages with sweet birds 
in them; and turkeys and hams. And after the supper, there was Ballou 
and his band, to entertain till the midnight hour, when, like polite 
guests, the company left for their homes. 



174

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1044 - 1050 

MUSEUMS &amp; GALLERIES (Cont'd) 

On the following day, the children had their occasion to frolic. 
What a rattle! • What an innocent row! • What laughing! • The attack on 
the tables was commenced in order, and nobly did the battle rage until 
creams, jellies and cakes begged for quarter. The young masters and 
misses went home in high glee, and we trust their joy was not marred by 
stomach aches and doctors! 

The proceeds of the festival will net about $440. (12) 

1044 ■ H Dec. 2; ed:2/l ■ At their festival on Nov. 28, the children 
danced with glee when presented with the sugar cage and birds donated by 
a Mr. Mould. 

"It was fun alive, and we wished we could pull out gray hairs, smoothe 
the wrinkles, limber our joints, and turn baby for an hour, to have a 
hand in the scramble." (3) 

1045 - H Dec. 16:2/3 - The curators of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

will meet tonight at the Medical college. (1) 

1046 - n Dec. 22:2/3 - The members of the Cleveland Academy of Natural 

Sciences will meet in the lower lecture room of the college tomorrow. 

The purpose of this meeting will be to hear the report of the curators 

on the subject of completing the room and the cases for the cabinet. (1) 

1047 - H Dec. 30:2/4 - Fossil Remains - Gentlemen having subscription 
books for the Academy of Science, are requested to hand them in, forth- 
with. Geo. A. Benedict, Chairman Com. (verbatim) (1) 

MUSIC 

1048 - II Jan. 3; adv:2/3 - G. W. Brainard would respectfully announce to 
the citizens of Cleveland that he will give lessons on the Piano Forte. 
Persons wishing to employ him will please call at Brainards Music Store. 
Terms, $3 per quarter. (1) 

1049 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/6 • Fr. Huene respectfully informs the Ladies and 
Gentlemen of Cleveland that he intends to give instructions on the 
Spanish Guitar. He flatters himself that a long experience in teaching 
music enables him to satisfy all who will interest themselves in his 
instruction. Those wishing instructions on the Spanish Guitar, please 
to call on Dr. Meyers, office over Mr. Seamen's Merchant Taylor Store, 
Superior st., where he will be found regularly at the hours from 11 to 

12, A.M. and from 2 to 3 P.M. (verbatim) (1) 

1050 - H Mar. 11; adv:2/4 - Singing Academy • The Spring term of the 
Adult Class in Mr. Bingham's Singing Academy will commence on Monday 
evening next, March 17th, at 7 o'clock, at the Apollo. 

To give every one an opportunity to learn to sing, Mr. B. has con- 
cluded to reduce the price of tickets to $1 each, payable at the 
expiration of half the term. (1) 



175

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1051 - 1057 

MUSIC (Cont'd) 

1051 - H Apr. 18:2/5 • Glee Class - The 2d term in Mr. Bingham's Singing 
Academy will commence at the "Apollo," on Saturday evening next, April 
20th at 7 o'clock. 

Persons desiring to improve in the art of reading Music will find this 
the very place. (verbatim) (1) 

1052 - H May 29; adv:3/2 - The Summer Term of Mr. Bingham's Singing Academy 
will commence on Monday, 9th of June next at the "Apollo." Juvenile Class 

at 3 P.M., - Adult Class at 7-1/2 o'clock. Terms, one dollar for 24 lessons. 

(1) 

1053 • H July 1; ed:3/3 - A musical composer in New York has invented a 
machine which prints his music immediately as it is played, producing a 
full composition - bars, notes, rests, and time by means of a simple device 
easily attached to any piano. 

"If the ingenious musical composer above alluded to will take the 
trouble to examine Prof. Lilliman's 'Four in Europe,' he will find that 
a similar machine was invented in England by Lord Cochrane, more than 
forty years since." (2) 

1054 - H July 7:2/4 - Thos. Hastings, Prof, of Sacred Music, from the city 
of New York, will give an address on this subject, on Tuesday, and Thursday 
evenings of this week, at the 2nd Presbyterian Church. 

The Choirs of the different churches, and all interested in this subject 
are invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

1055 - H July 19:3/1 - The Cleveland Brass band has received and accepted 
a polite invitation to visit Niagara Falls. The band is under the leader- 
ship of Leland. The band will leave on the CHESAPEAKE, with Captain 
Kelsey in command. 

Leland has composed a beautiful piece of music, which he dedicated to 
Captain Kelsey, called "Kelsey's Quick Step," which will be played on the 
occasion. (3) 

1056 - H July 30:2/4 - The Cleveland brass band feels greatly indebted to 
Capt. L. A, Kelsey of the Steamer CHESAPEAKE, for the hospitality and 
gentlemanly courtesy evinced by him to each and all of its members on the 
occasion of the late trip to Niagara Falls and Toledo. The band would 
consider themselves wanting in gratitude were they to pass over an op- 
portunity to record their "mite," along with the thousands of testimonials 
daily spoken of the officer-like ability and manly bearing of the commander 
of the CHESAPEAKE. (3) 

1057 - H Aug. 9; ed:2/l - All our citizens have frequently listened with 
gratification to the Cleveland Brass band, while but few have considered 
the expenses of time, leadership, and instruments to its worthy spirited 
members. The band therefore wishes that a subscription be made to pay 
the salary of the band leader, $400 yearly, for which favor music will 
be given free on all public occasions and a concert held gratis to 



176

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1058 - 1065 

MUSIC (Cont'd) 

Subscribers at the end of each quarter. 

"We trust it may prove successful for our city and the Band's sake." 

(4) 

1058 - H Sspt. 9; adv:2/4 • The subscriber having some leisure time will 
give instructions on the Guitar, to such as desire it. He will also give 
instructions in the Spanish language, to a small class if desired. 

W. White, 10 Orange lane. (verbatim) (1) 

1059 - H Sept. 10; adv:3/l - Brainard has compiled, arranged, printed and 
published, a musical work of 75 pages, containing some 150 select Melo- 
dies, principally from the Operas of Bellini, Auber, Donizetti, Rossini, 
&amp;c., arranged as Solos, Duetts, Trios and Quartetts, for the Violin or 
Flute. The work is a beautiful specimen of musical typography, and the 
amateur will find the collection a valuable one. For sale at Brainard's. 
(verbatim) (2) 

1060 - H Sept. 17; adv:2/4 - The Fall term in Mr. Bingham's Singing 
Academy will commence on Monday next, Sept. 22, at the Apollo. Adult 
Class at 7 p.m. Juvenile Class at 3 p.m. Terms as usual. 

Rehearsal of the Singing Class, on Tuesday evening next, at 7 o'clock. 
A punctual attendance is requested. S. L. Bingham. (verbatim) (1) 

1061 - H Oct. 2; adv:2/4 - Mr. Bingham's singing School for this evening 
will be postponed till Monday evening next. (1) 

1062 - H Oct. 6; adv:2/4 - Mr. W, Armstrong, from New York, respectfully 
informs the Ladies and Gents of Cleveland, that he will commence the 
first quarter of his Singing Academy, at the Empire Hall, on Friday, 

Oct. 10th, at 7 o'clock, in the evening. Rehearsals on Mondays and Thurs- 
days, at 7-1/2 o'clock. 

Juvenile Class at 3 o'clock, P.M. 

Terms - $2 the quarter, payable on entrance. 
First Rehearsal on Monday, Oct. 13. (verbatim) (1) 

1063 - H Oct. 14; adv:2/4 - Singing School. F. S. Slosson will commence 
a course of primary instruction in vocal music, in the lecture room of the 
Stone Church, on October 20. Lessons will be given two evenings each 
week. Price $2. (2) 

1064 - H Nov. 1; adv:4/5 - S. L. Bingham will open a school for instruc- 
tion and practice in glee singing, at the Apollo Hall, on Nov. 12. 

Terms: $1.00 per quarter of 12 lessons; one each week. (1) 

1065 - H Nov. 13; adv:2/4 - Tuition on the Flute. - The undersigned is now 
prepared to give lessons on the Flute; those desirous of obtaining instruc- 
tions on the above instrument will please apply at Mr. Brainard's Music 
store. J. Rees. (1) 



177

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1066 - 1072 

MUSIC (Cont'd) 

1066 - H Dec. 20; adv:2/4 - Leland's Quadrille Band. J. M. Leland would 

inform that he has organized a Cotillion Band, whose selections cannot 

fail to satisfy all who may honor him with patronage. He will introduce: 

Overtures, Waltzes, Gallopades, Mazurkas, Polkas, &amp;c. &amp;c. The Band 

includes the following instruments: Violin, flute, cello, clarinet, 

post horn, violin - cello. 

Any number of musicians furnished for balls, parties, serenades, and 
all public occasions, at sho-test notice, by applying to J. M. Leland 
at No. 56 Seneca st., or L. V, Ballou, at the American Hotel. (2) 

Concerts 



1067 - H Mar, 12; adv:2/4 - A concert will be given on Mar. 13, at Apollo 
Hall, under the direction of J. M. Leland. The Cleveland Brass Band 
will play a program composed of 16 musical songs. Tickets - 25 cents - 
to be had at Brainard's and at the door. Concert to commence at 7-1/2 
o'clock precisely. (3) 

1068 - H Mar. 13:3/2 - Concert - Our music loving citizens will bear in 
mind that the admirable Cleveland Brass Band gives a concert at the 
Apollo this evening, and that the price of tickets will not go to fill 
the pockets of stroll'ng musicians, but will benefit a spirited corps of 
our own citizens who have liberally expended time and money to get up a 
Brass Band all Clevelanders are proud of. Do not fail to give the Band 

a real benefit. (verbatim) (1) 

1069 - H Apr. 18; adv:2/5 - Concert - Master Howard, from Cincinnati, The 
Unequaled Violinist, of his age, will give a Concert on the Violin, at 

the Apollo Hall, on Friday Evening, April 18. Tickets 25 cents each, to 
be had at the American Hotel and at Brainard's Music Store. Doors open 
at 7 o'clock. Performance to commence at 8 precisely. For particulars 
see bills of the day. (1) 

1070 - H May 20:3/1 - The unequalled Cleveland Brass band proposes to give 
every body a concert of popular airs on the Public Square, Thursday 
evening. May 22. The concert will be popular and agreeable, and as a 
partial remuneration to our spirited citizens who devote their time and 
money to the cultivation of instrumental music, a liberal subscription 
should be made to the proposed concert. (2) 

1071 - H May 22:3/1 - Concert Postponed. - The proposed Concert of the 
Cleveland Brass band on the Public Square this evening, is postponed on 
account of weather, to Friday evening, or the first fair one, when look 

for several new and choice pieces. (verbatim) (1) 

1072 - H June 2; adv:2/4 - Signor Martinez informs the citizens of Cleve- 
land that he will give a concert at the Apollo Hall on June 3. Vocal and 
Instrumental music. Programme to consist of 18 songs. Concert to commence 
at 8 o'clock. Tickets, 50 cents. (5) 



178

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1073 - 1079 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

1073 - H June 3; adv:2/3 - To the Public: A band of impostors have been 
advertising, and appeared June 2, in Buffalo, N. Y., under the name of 
"the Campanologian Brothers or Band of Bell Ringers" for the purpose 

of deceiving the public and causing them to believe these impostors are 
the original Bell Ringers, who have received the applause of thousands 
in almost every city in the land. 

I consider it my duty to state that "The Original Campanologian Band 
of Bell Ringers" are now in Cleveland, and will give their first Concert 
at Apollo Hall tomorrow evening, Wednesday, June 4th. (4) 

1074 - H June 3; adv:2/4 - Extraordinary Musical Novelty. - The Citizens of 
Cleveland are respectfully informed that the celebrated Swiss Bell Ringers 
will give a Grand Concert at the Apollo Hall, Wednesday Eve., June 4lh. 

This is the original Campanologian Band assisted by Mons. Messemer, 
Cornetist. (2) 

1075 - H June 5; ed:2/l - The masses went to Apollo hall last evening 
doubting the possibility of the entertainment by the Swiss Bell Ringers 
being anything but a humbug which editors had brought into notice by a 
flourish of the quill, and at their entrance their impressions were 

not lessened by the uncouth array of auction bells, porter's bells, kail 
bells, dinner bells, table bells, ?nd boudoir bells, "all in a row" on 
the table. 

"The first piece, 'the Bell Waltzes,' dispelled all misgivings, and 
called out an irresistible enthusiasm which found vent in loud and rap- 
turous applause that showed the r'elight of all. We have never seen an 
audience more delighted with an evening's amusement, nor a novelty so 
entirely successful in the performanci s of its promises. It was per- 
fect hirmony in all its parts, without a discordant tone to jar the 
finest ear." (6) 

1076 - H June 7; adv;2/4 - The Original Band of Campanologians, will 

give their second concert at the Apollo Hall on Monday, June 9. i (1) 

1077 - H June 9; adv:2/4 - Concert at the Apollo Hall on June 10. Ole 
Bull, has the honor of announcing that he will give his only concert in 
this city on Tuesday evening, June 10. Tickets, $1 each. Doors open 

at 7. Concert commences at 8 o'clock. (2) 

1078 - H June 9:3/1 - The week opens with two rare musical treats. This 
evening the Swiss Bell Ringers give another concert at Apollo Hall, an 
entertainment truly pleasing and unique; and tomorrow evening the world- 
famed Ole Bull discourses on the "sweet - sounding viol," - our Cincin- 
nati friend gives an inklin'^ how Mr. Duffield, a very popular Western 
Vocalist, will sing some of his best songs. (verbatim) (1) 

1079 - H June 10; ed:3/l - "We are truly a wonderful people! an extraordinary 
people! an incomprehensible people!! There is nothing under the sun that 
was ever done that we cannot do, and there are many things that we do 



179

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1080 - 1081 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

that no other people ever attempted to do.... 

"We have a decided genius for everything, but if there is one thing 
in which we are pre-eminent, it is music, - and if any one doubts it, 
let him attend a Concert of Music at the Apollo Hall, and see how the 
whole mass is agitated by the performance of any popular melody." 

We felt assured that the "Swiss Bell Ringers" would make a decided 
hit, and that their performances justified our expectations. There 
was however, something wanting to give a finish to the performance. 
Unique as the novelty was, it was not quite pe feet. It was the musi- 
cal heels' that were needed to give t! e finishing touch and add sub- 
limity and grandeur to melody and harmony. Thanks to the small corps of 
street minstrels who were present last night for the inimitable perfec- 
tion they had attained by long practice with their heels on dry goods 
boxes. Their "musical heels" kept such perfect time upon the floor 
that although they were scattered through the room, all were in perfect 
unison showing a long and systematic course of drilling, scarcely ex- 
celled by the "Bell Ringers," who doubtless found in their music a most 
valuable auxiliary. 

"Would it not be advisable for the 'musical heels' to wait upon Ole 
Bull today and offer their services to him for this evening? They gave 
so novel satisfaction last evening, that we feel assured if he had been 
present he would promptly have requested an interview with them for pro- 
curing an engagement this evening. Quere - Did the great bard understand 
human nature when he wrote 'Music hath charms to sooth the savage breast.'" 

(12) 

1080 - H June 11:3/1 - A very large audience last evening attended Ole 
Bull's concert at the Apollo hall, many induced by a desire to see the 
"Wizard of the North," who has such a marvelous reputation as a violinist, 
and others to gratify their musical taste and extend its cultivation by 
listening to what musical critics pronounce the near attainment of per- 
fection. The whole audience seemed unanimous in the conclusion that Ole 
Bull is a great fiddler, leaving it with each other separately to decide 
whether less scientific pieces would not have given greater pleasure in- 
dividually. The songs by Duffield gave universal satisfaction, alike 
from the rich fulness of his voice, the style in which they were sung, and 
the judicious selection he had mfde. He is a Buckeye, at least by adoption 
if not by birth, and we hope to hear of him hereafter as a ballad singer 

not surpassed by any competitor. (8) 

1081 - H June 12; ed:3/l - The New York EXPRESS says: The Campanolo- 
gians proper and the Campanologian imitators are nearing each other from 
opposite quarters rapidly; and at Cleveland, 0., Corbyn, who travels with 
the "simon pures," publishes a card in which he puts the public "out west" 
on their guard against the others. What a ringing of bells, if not of 
something else, there will be when the two parties meet. 

The anticipated meeting did not take place, the imitators shying off 
and playing the Simon Pures a Yankee trick instead of a rival chime.... 

Yankees are hard to out-ring or out-wit." (4) 



180

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1082 - 1087 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

1082 - H June 23; adv:2/4 - Grand concert of vocal and instrumental 
music given by Mr. S. H. Nott &amp; Sisters, at the Apollo Hall on June 24. 
Nothing in sorg. word or dress, can be objectionable to the most fastid- 
ious, of any Religious denomination. Clergymen are respectfully invited 

to attend. Tickets, 25 cts. Performance to commence at 8 o'clock. (2) 

1083 - H June 30; adv:2/4 - Grand Concert of Vocal &amp; Instrumental music. 
The violin and harp, by Mons. Canderbeck, and Lady, at the Apollo hall, 
on July 1. Single tickets 50 cts. Concert commences at 8 o'clock 
precisely. (1) 

1084 - H July 12; adv:2/4 - Notice - Musicale. Signor Antonini, Tenor 
of the Italian Opera, in New York, and Mr. Gibert, celebrated vocalist, 
lately from Paris, have arrived in this city and intend to give a vocal 
Concert, to-morrow night. The Programme will be rich and entertaining. 

(1) 

1085 - H July 17; ed:3/l - Our citizens are promised a rich musical enter- 
tainment tomorrow evening by two of the best vocal performers ever to 
visit this country, Signors Antonini and Gibert from the Italian opera 

of New York. Antonini is well known for his opera work in New York and 
Philadelphia; Gibert is spoken of highly in Paris. 

"Our citizens cannot too highly appreciate this opportunity of 
listening to the very best vocalists in this country." (4) 

1086 - H July 19; ed:3/2 - The good people of Cleveland have at last 
listened to the thrilling melodies that escape from the violin of Ole 
Bull, and the skillfully pealed notes of the Swiss Bell-Ringers. Doubt- 
less many a curious ear was gratified, and perhaps some hearts were 
initiated more deeply into the mysterious of nature. 

"As a nation, we are not sufficiently musical to be cheerful and 
happy. The families of the lowly are not often enough cheered by the 
soothing sounds of music, nor is its place supplied by that high percep- 
tion of harmony which is the spirit of all music." (13) 

1087 - H Aug. 2; adv:2/4 - For Four Nights. Great Musical Treat, on Mon- 
day, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, August 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th. 

A splendid vocal and instrumental performance will be given by Miss :. 

Elizabeth Sloman, Miss Anne Sloman, and Mr. John Sloman, Harpists, 
Pianists, and Vocalists, whose superior recitals of the rarest music, 
from the works of the best composers, have elicited from the most •■ . ;.;. 

numerous audiences unbounded applause and approbation. 

The Misses Sloman have sustained the reputation of being ranked among 
the first Pianists of the day. 

Miss E. Sloman, stands unrivalled in any part of the world as a 
Harpiste. 

Mr. Sloman, the Celebrated Comic Vocalist, known in all the principal 
cities of the Union. 



181

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1088 - 1094 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

Among other gems, songs from the New Opera of the Bohemian Girl. 
Admittance 50 cts. Concert to commence at 8 o'clock. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1088 - H Aug. 5; ed:3/l - The concert given at the Apollo hall last evening 
by the Slomans was attended, we are sorry to say, by few of our citizens, 
but those who were there, however, were delighted and surprised by the 
brilliancy of their execution on the harp and piano. 

"We trust that the succeeding concerts to be given by this talented 
family will be more fully attended and we will answer for the delight 
that will be afforded." (3) 

1089 - II Aug. 6; ed:3/l - This is the last night but one, of the Misses 
and Mr. Sloman. Their Concert was well attended last night; and the 
performances on Harp and Piano afforded great delight. We never had 
finer performers in our city, and trust tonight and tomorrow (being the 
last) will be crowned with a bumper. (verbatim) (1) 

1090 - H Aug. 8:2/4 - Concert. The Handel Society of W. R. College will 
give their 18th annual Concert in the College Chapel, (Hudson) on Thurs- 
day evening, the 14th of August. The Celebrated "Song of the Bell," by 
Schiller, will be performed on that occasion, and a copy of the words 
furnished, on the bill, to all who purchase tickets, (verbatim) (1) 

1091 - H Aug. 8:3/1 - The Misses and Mr. Sloman give their Last Concert 
this evening, it having been postpon d in consequence of the unpropitious 
state of the weather, which deprived numerous parties from listening to 
th^se celebrated artistes. We hope the room will be crowded tonight, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1092 - H Aug. 9; ed:2/l - We perceive by an advertisement that Misses &amp; 
Mr. Sloman give another Concert this evening. Their Concert last night 
was very well attended, and gave great delight to some of the best musi- 
cal amateurs in our city. Their audiences have increased every night, and, 
no mean compliment, the same persons have attended nearly every Concert. 
Those who do not go to-night, that have not yet attended, will loose a 
treat they will ultimately be sorry for. Mr. Sloman's "Blue Beard" is 
worth the price of admission. (verbatim) (2) 

1093 ■ H Aug. 14; ed:3/l - Mr. Duffield The Vocalist - We are pleased to 
see the complimentary notices taken of this gentleman; impressed with 
the conviction that he possesses a rare order of talent as a vocalist, 

we wish to see him encouraged, even though to "the manor born." 

(verbatim) (1) 

1094 - H Aug. 19; adv:2/4 - Brilliant Attraction. At the New and Splendid 
Empire Hall, on Wednesday Eve., Aug. 20. The Cleveland Brass Band, gives 
their first Public Quarterly Concert. The citizens of Cleveland are assured 



182

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1C95 - 1100 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

that the entertainment of the evening will fully compensate them for their 
liberal patronage. Concert to commence at 7-1/2 o'clock. Cards of Admis- 
sion, 25/, to be had at the Franklin, American, and Merchants' Hotel. (3) 

1095 - H Aug. 20:3/1 - The Cleveland Brass Band present an attractive pro- 
gramme for their Concert this evening, which we trust will be so appreciated 
by our citizens as to secure a numerous attendance in the spacious Empire 
Hall. The Band deserve a bumper, and the splendid Hall which they will 
dedicate with "sonorous metal" is well worthy of a visit. (verbatim) (1) 

1095-1/2 - H Aug. 21; ed:3/l - The new Empire Hall was graced last evening 
by a large and fashionable audience, and the Cleveland Brass Band performed 
admirably - never better. The Hall is just the thing for Concerts, and when 
lighted, presents a truly beautiful appearance. 

Leland's own musical compositions, particularly the Phoenix and 
Chesipe:ike Quick Steps, were the card performances. Mr. L. exhibits 
much originality and musical talent, and the Band are fortunate in se- 
curing the services of so competent a leader. (verbatim) (2) 

1096 - H Sept. 17; adv:2/4 ■ For 1 Night Only. Vocal and Instrumental 
Concert. Mr. B. Parvin - Late a graduate of Pennsylvania Institute for 
the Instruction of the Blind, will present a Concert at Apollo Hall, 
Tonight Only, assisted by a boy pianist. Tickets, 25/. (3) 

1097 - H Sept. 18:3/1 - Owing to the illness of Mr. Parvin, the proposed 
Concert at the Apillo last evening, was postponed to this evening. Mr. 
P. is blind, and the performances of himself and blind pupil, are well 
spoken of. (verbatim) (1) 

1098 - H Sept. 20; adv:2/4 - The Orphean Family would respectfully inform 
the Ladies and Gentlemen of Cleveland that they will give a Concert of 
Vocal Music, at The Empire Hall, on Monday, Sept. 22. Tickets 50/ at 
booksellers - Children, half price. (3) 

1099 - H Sept. 22; ed:3/l - The Orpheans. We had the pleasures on Sat- 
urday, of hearing several pieces of music sung by this celebrated family, 
an! we have no hesitation in saying to our musical friends that they will 
find a rich treat in the performances at the Empire Hall, this evening, 
fully equal if not surpassing all that the fame of the singers has led 
them to anticipate. We look for a crowded Hall at an early hour. 
(verbatim) (I) 

1100 - H Sept. 23; ed:3/l - The Orpheans gave their first concert yester- 
day at Empire hall to a highly gratified audience. The program comprised 
a great variety of pieces, sentimental, amusing, and solemn, and in each 
the applause of the audience was lavish. Perhaps the best received numbers 



183

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1101 - 1107 

MUSIC - Concerts (Cont'd) 

were "Mountaineer's Invitation," "Row, Brothers, Row," and "Weeping 

Mother." 

"The entire harmony of their voices struck all with astonishment, 
for it seems almost impossible to realise that four voices can form so 
perfect a unison." (4) 

1101 - H Sept. 24; ed:3/l - The Orpbeans give their farewell Concert at 
the Empire Hall this evening. They are true songsters, and their full, 
grand, clear, liquid notes are perfect echoes of the "unwritten music" of 
their dear old mountain homes. Their "gush of melody" stirs the depths 

and carries captive all hearts. (verbatim) (1) 

1102 - H Oct. 4; adv:2/4 • Temperance Musical Entertainment. Mr. Church 
will give a Concert at the Tabernacle, Monday evening, Oct. 6th, at 

7 o'clock. 

Admission 12-l/2c, to be paid at the door. '"^' ''■■''■■ '"-'■ •- (1) 

1103 - H Oct. 4:3/1 - The lovers of Song will be glad to hear that the 
Orpheans are again in town, and will give a Concert at the Empire Hall 
on Monday evening. Their arrangements are such that but a single con- 
cert will be given. (verbatim) (1) 

1104 - H Oct. 6; adv:2/4 • Mr. &amp; the Misses Sloman respectfully inform 
their friends, that their non-arrival was caused by the Storm. Their 
Concert will take place on Tuesday, October the 7th. 

In addition to the Music already announced, Mr. Sloman will sing 
George Alexander Stevens' description of A Storm. ■ . (1) 

1105 - H Oct. 6; adv:2/4 - Positively But One Night. The Orphean Family. 
Have the pleasure to announce to their friends and public that they will 
give a Concert of Vocal Music, At The Empire Hall on Monday Evening, 

Oct. 6. (3) 

1106 - H Oct. 6; ed:3/l - The Orphean Family sing at the Empire hall this 
evening, an announcement that will be sure to call there a numerous and 
fashionable audience. Their previous concerts here, are pronounced by 
all who attended, as the best Clevelanders have ever been favored with, 
and tonight will be the last opportunity to enjoy their "concord of 

sweet sound." (verbatim) (1) 

1107 - H Oct. 6; ed:3/l - The comical phiz of the musical Sloman greeted us 
in our sanctum today, and it really seemed that his grin was broader than 
usual, the effect probably of raising a laugh all around the broad prairies 
of the West. He merely desired us to say - and would we could do it as 
comically as he did - that old Boreas having piped himself hoarse in order 

to frustrate his engagement Saturday evening, Mr. and Misses Sloman will 
on Tuesday evening give one of their choicest and most agreeable musical 
entertainments at the Apollo. "Bravo! Mr. Simpkins!" (verbatim) (2) 



184

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1108 - 1116 

MUSIC • Concerts (Cont'd) 

1108 - H Oct. 7; ed:3/l - The Sloman's Concert at the Apollo this evening. 
It will be a great musical treat. (verbatim) (1) 

1109 • H Oct. 8; ed:3/l ■ Mr. and the Misses Sloman. - Our limits prevent 
us from writing a long critcism on the Concert last night, at the Apollo 
Hall, suffice it to say, that, if applause and attention from an over- 
flowing room, is any proof of success, the Misses Sloman were highly so. 
The exquisite manner in which the Duet for two Piano Fortes was executed 
was the theme of praise, and gave great delight to persons conversant 
with the difficulties of the Piano. A Farewell Concert takes place on 
Thursday. (verbatim) (2) 

1110 • H Oct. 8:3/1 - The Cleveland Brass band will give a Concert at the 
Apollo Hall, on Saturday evening next. It is intimated that the musical 
treat will be unusually excellent, as the music of the "sweet sounding 
Viol" and Piano will be introduced into the performances. (verbatim) (1) 

1111 ■ H Oct. 11:3/1 ■ The Concert To-night. • The Cleveland Brass band 
hope to see a full house at the Apollo this evening, and they deserve 

it. (verbatim) (1) 

1112 - H Oct. 31; ed:2/l - The Gothamites are music mad just now with the 
performances of Leopold Von Meyer, a wonderful pianist whose appearance 
in America is declared to "constitute an epoch in the musical world." 

His greatforte is noise. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Theater ; . ; . 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 

1113 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/5 • Boston Piano Fortes. Just received a New and 
Splendid assortment of L. Gilbert's Patent Action Piano Fortes, at R. 
Reed's on Water st., 1 door south of the Mansion House, which will be 

sold at reduced prices for Cash. (2) 

1114 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - A First Rate Piano To Let to any person who 
will not let children under 6 years of age play with the keys, or who 
will use it with care, and also be tolerable good pay, can find one on 
application to - N. C. Crittenden. (verbatim) (1) 

1115 - H Jan. 25; adv:2/4 - Piano Fortes. S. Brainard offers for sale 
pianos made by J. Chickering, of Boston. Prices from $75 to $250. 

Pianos rented from this establishment, will be kept in tune, free of 
charge. Persons wishing to rent, by leaving their names, can always be 
accommodated within a few weeks. (4) 

1116 • H May 19; adv:2/4 - Harmony. Mr. Z. H. West, late from the east, 
would inform the citizens of Cleveland that he will tune and put in good 
repair all Pianos entrusted to his charge, with despatch and in a way that 



185

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1117 - 1118 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (Cont'd) 

Will please his customers. 

All orders may be left at Hanks &amp; Hopkins' Painting Rooms, No, 80 
Empire Building, Superior - st. (1) 

1117 - H July 1; adv:3/6 - Violins &amp; Violin-Cellos - Of French, German, 

and Italian make, for sale at the Bazaar and Music Store. (1) 

1118 - H July 1; adv:2/6 • S. Brainard of 38 Superior st., is the agent for 
the Metallic Frame Piano Fortes, manufactured by Boardman &amp; Gray of 
Albany. They have a good assortment of the above instrument at all times 
which will be sold at Factory prices, transportation added. (4) 

See also Music 



186

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC, 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1119 - 1121 . ;•] - -;;; ^}-r^--:^d': 

PLACEHOLDER

NATURAL HISTORY. See Museums &amp; Galleries • . 

NATURAL PHENOMENA 

1119 - H Sept. 10:3/1 - Water Spout. - Many of our citizens this morning 
had the pleasure of witnessing a water spout, connecting the lake with a 
cloud above, which produced quite a bubbling and commotion in the waves 
where the waters mingled. It was one of the best defined, and the most 
magnificent phenomenon of the kind observed for some time in this quarter, 
(verbatim) , ,...,. (1) 

See also Astronomy '.;./■ . .,•:•■- u .^^ • • ■■ ^; .". ■•. :■. 

NATURALIZATION. See Citizenship 

NEGROES 

1120 - H Apr. 19:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, H. M. T. says: I was 
much pleased with the sentiments expressed by your Pittsburgh correspon- 
dent. I have most ardently hoped that our legislature would remove those 
stains of injustice which have dishonored our statute book for so long a 
period. Whatever palliation may be offered in behalf of those who 
originally framed the so-called "Black laws," it would seem that the in- 
vestigations that have been made, and the successful result of well tried 
experiments to elevate the Negro race, could leave no excuse for those 
called upon to legislate at the present day. 

It is no longer necessary to search the records of antiquity, to advert 
to such characters as Scipio, Hannibal, Euclid, and many others, to prove 
that men of dark complexions are endowed with the same essential proper- 
ties as the fairest race. 

"I am unwilling to believe that any sincere lover of liberty will in- 
tentionally do aught that will for a moment darken a human mind, or sub- 
ject a fellow being to unjust servitude. Yet, I fear we do not always 
regard consequences so fully as we might. A free colored population, 
intelligent and virtuous, capable of discharging the high responsibilities 
of life would furnish the most unanswerable argument in favor of the ex- 
tension of our civil rights to the less favored of their race." (19) 

1121 - H May 5; ed:3/l - The colored people of Cincinnati have procured a 
very handsome pitcher for presentation to S. P. Chase, Esq. It bears the 
following inscription: "A testimony of gratitude to Salmon P. Chase, from 
the colored people of Cincinnati, for his various public services in behalf 
of the oppressed, and particularly for his eloquent advocacy of the rights 
of man, in the case of Samuel Watson, who was claimed as a fugitive slave, 
Feb. 12, 1845." 

"And yet this class of citizens, who so justly appreciate philanthropy 
and moral worth, are not even allowed under the worse than barbarous laws 
of Ohio to testify in our Courts of Justice!" (2) 



187

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts II22 - 1125 

NEGROES (Cont'd) 

1122 - H Sept. 25; ed:2/l - Among the prominent objectives of legislation 
to be accomplished during the coming winter is the repeal of the unjust 
black laws which now disgrace our statute books and the people of our 
state. These laws are mere nullities upon our statute books. They are 
never enforced, save in the trial of criminals, when the villain is 
allowed to escape because the law will not allow a colored man to testify 
in any case where a white man is a party. The Negro labors under diffi- 
culties enough, without being compelled to submit to the action of unjust 
laws. 

We are for the unconditional repeal of the black laws. "Repeal these 
laws, which bear with all the weight of Egyptian oppression upon the 
colored population of Ohio, and the people of Ohio cannot be accused of 
being the enemies of the colored race." (5) 

H Sipt. 30:2/2 - See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections - Ohio 

1123 - H Oct. 24:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: So 
much has been said against the Ohio black laws that I must speak in their 
defense. Do they not encourage the best population, and discourage the 
worst? Is it wise to alter them and to thus invite a larger Negro popula- 
tion here? Would that be justice tu the whites of Ohio? Every principle 
of legislation answers no. "Where can be found an instance of a full 
blood negro purchasing a lot of timbered land, clearing it himself, and 
raising flour and pork for exportation, in this State?... Do not the free 
negroes cooimit more than ten times the amount of crime, to those held in 
bondage? The prisons in all the States demonstrate this fact." 

The black law is not a curse. "Can my abolition friends point to a 
single instance of serious evil growing out of this law? If not, why 
alter it? Does not the greatest good to the greatest number require the 
continuance of these laws? If it does, let them alone.... If the negro 
dislikes our laws, let him leave our State; no one compels him to stay. - 
If he came in under these laws, what right has he to complain? Can any 
one point to an instance of complaint until our modern Solomons, the 
abolition, liberty, amalgamationists taught them how to complain?" (15) 

1124 - H Oct. 24; ed:3/l ■ "A Farmer," it will be seen, has taken up the 
cudgels in favor of the Black Laws of Ohio, and asks a hearing, which we 
grant on the principle that free discussion and the truth make men free. 
"Farmer" has set his oar against the strong current of philanthropy and 
justice which is fast sweeping the distinctions of prejudice on account 
of color from statute books; and if we mistake not the signs of the times, 
the coming session of the legislature of Ohio will change our Black code 

to "White Laws." (verbatim) (2) 

1125 - H Oct. 28:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Colored Man" replies 
to "A Farmer." He says, in substance: In an article of yours in the 
HERALD of Oct. 24, under the head of "White Laws of Ohio," you attack the 
claims of the colored man to justice, villify his character, and boldly 



188

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts - 1126 

NEGROES (Cont'd) 

avow yourself an advocate of the oppressive and unjust policy so long 
persisted in towards him by this and other states of the union. As to 
the slanders heaped upon me and my colored brethren, I shall say, first: 
If we are ignorant, look to your school laws that deprive us of learning, 
and to the groundless and unjust prejudices you would stir up and keep 
alive. And, if you feel that Ohio has flourished under her black laws, 
why have not Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, etc., progressed in 
proportion to the severity of their black laws? Some of these laws are 
dead letters, and their being on the statute book has not affected the 
prosperity of the state at all. You know that some of these laws cannot 
be enforced and that you have violated them yourself. You ask if these 
laws have not encouraged 1,500,000 of the best and most industrious in- 
habitants to settle in this state. I say no. The yankee is a money 
loving being and will go where he thinks it would be profitable. If he 
came here under these laws, the laws did not induce him to come. 

"But you want to get rid of the blacks, and I will tell you the quick- 
est way to do it. It is this: Assist with all your might in doing away 
with slavery, and in obtaining the repeal of all the Southern black laws, 
and I believe that in 15 years after that is done you will seldom see a 
colored man; they will all migrate to the South." (21) 

1126 - H Nov. 1:2/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Colored Man" says: 
I wish to answer the recent letter of "A Farmer" who asks "Is it not 
proverbial that the negro is more indolent than any nation of white people?" 
You are pleased to call us the lowest and unhappiest of all people. Now 
let us look at other nations: It is commonly conceded that in Spain there 
are some 5,000,000 or 6,000,000 of the most wretched and indolent beings, 
and they are whites; in South America, where native Indians and Spanish 
descendants toil, the picture is even worse. I know, too, from experience 
that in the free States, the blacks, taken generally, are immeasurably 
sjperior in industry, and so forth, to the people of Mexico. In Mexico 
and Cuba and elsewhere, black men have distinguished themselves as artisans 
and mechanics. 

"Everv candid observer can see that the colored people of this State 
.nre alive with emulation, that thev are. and have long been making praise- 
worthy efforts and sacrifices to educate themselves and acquire property. 
Surely, where such tidings are, there cannot be the extreme of indolence." 

The Cincinnati REFORMER savs the blacks are industrious, energetic, 
.nnd self-supporting, immeasurably more so than three-fourths of the whites 
of Spain, Portugal, Russia, or Poland. The blacks in that city own prop- 
erty and support their own schools and orphan asylums. In industry they 
are more and more being recognized in their proper light. "Does this look 
like being more indolent and vicious than any other people?" 

"These things are of themselves quite sufficient to disprove all you 
have brought against us. In my next I will enlighten you a little in re- 
gard to the condition of our people in this city." (34) 



189

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1127 - 1129 

NEGROES (Cont'd) 

1127 - H Nov. 1:3/2 - A proposition to the Clergy of all communities in 
Ohio: We notice that Thursday. Nov. 20, is set apart by the governor of 
this state as a day of Thanksgiving. As pastors of the city's churches, 
we, the undersigned, suggest as a proper subject for consideration on 
that occasion, the state of the colored people in Ohio - particularly the 
liabilities by which in no small degree they are disfranchised and op- 
pressed. What nobler theme for an annual festival! What better can we 
offer the Lord for his kindness, than to make an effort to relieve his 
suffering poor? Signed - Rev. S. C. Aiken, First Presbyterian church; 
Rev. J. H. Walden, First Baptist church; B. K. Maltby, Methodist Episco- 
pal church; G. W. Walker, Wesleyan Methodist church; and S. B. Canfield, 
Second Presbyterian church. 

The proposition is accompanied by a petition to the state legislature, 
asking for the repeal of all laws making distinction between the inhabi- 
tants of the state on account of color. (5) 

1128 - H Nov. 5:2/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Colored Man" says: 
In accordance with my promise, I continue my defense of the blacks of 
Ohio, and especially of this city. There are in Cleveland 20 blacks who, 
with their families, number 5'3. They own property to the value of $55,000, 
and occupy various useful positions, from that of canal boat owners to 
stewards on boats. All this property has been accumulated in the past 12 
years. "It will be difficult to prove from this that slaves when freed 
become 'more indolent and vicious.'" 

Read the account of colored people in Mercer county, in this state, 
where freed Negroes, under Augustus Wattles, have cleared and own 30,000 
acres and have established a library. 

"Will 'A Farmer' refer me to a single instance in any age of the world 
where a white colony has lived under such disadvantages as the blacks of 
this State do, viz: disfranchised by law, deprived of their oaths in 
favor of themselves, or against malicious enemies; denied schooling; the 
citizens forbade (sic) by law to encourage or employ them; and proscribed 
by universal prejudice. I ask if I can be referred to a white colony 
laboring under anything like these disadvantages, and yet in eight years 
equalling this settlement?... These things speak for themselves, yet 
this is but a single case.... 

"Now we have confidence enough in the public to believe that all these 
things will be properly considered, and taken as proofs of progression 
never equalled in rapidity by any people circumstanced as we are. Be- 
lieving that the facts I have here adduced will to every calm and reflect- 
ing mind abundantly refute every charge brought against us by 'A Farmer,' 
I respectfully submit them to a discerning public to read, reflect and 
judge between us." (21) 

1129 - H Nov. 21:3/1 - An attentive congregation listened to an eloquent 
discourse on the disgrace of the Ohio black laws, at Dr. Aiken's church 
yesterday. Dr. Aiken pointed out that the laws oppressed the colored 
people and offended all precepts of justice and philanthropy. 

Petitions to the state legislature for the repeal of these laws were 
circulated after the services and were numerously signed. (2) 



190

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1130 

NEGROES (Cont'd) 

1130 - H Nov. 29:3/1-4 - Reverend S. C. Aiken, pastor of the First 
Presbyterian church, in an address delivered at the church on Thanks- 
giving da3s denounced the injustice of the black laws of Ohio. He said: 
It is quite certain that the odious laws of which I am about to speak, 
the black laws, are but little known in detail by the people of this 
state. The most I can do, or attempt to do on this occasion, is to 
open the statute books, and read and comment on the reasons for their 
repeal. ., 

Sections 1 and 2, page 592, require that every colored person, or 
mulatto, must, before he is permitted to settle in the state, obtain a 
certificate of freedom, attested properly by a clerk of the court 
granting said certificate, etc., etc. 

"Now, the law of which I am speaking, is clearly a violation of the 
spirit, if not of the letter, of the Constitution. Why this certificate 
of freedom? Why this family registry, at an expense of one shilling for 
each individual, when, perhaps, their whole income would not purchase a 
loaf of bread?... If the Constitution means anything, it means to con- 
demn slavery as a violation of the natural rights of men; but this law 
declares the claims of the slaveholder to be lawful." 

Section 3 of the law provides a penalty for all who employ blacks or 
mulattos who have not a license of freedom. 

What do the makers of this law mean? If a black, or a mulatto, hav- 
ing no certificate, in a state of want and distress, comes along, do they 
mean that we must refuse to feed or clothe him, or give him a day's work 
or a night's shelter? 

"0, the comfort of having one's benevolence regulated by law and ' 

penalty, under a free government! 

"Who would think that such laws had an existence in the 19th century, 
in the intelligent commonwealth of Ohio, and above all, that they have 
been susta:"ned and sanctioned by her citizens for forty years?" 

The same section of law forbids the admittance of evidence in a court 
by a black person, if a white man is a party to the controversy. "In 
arbitrary governments, we have heard of criminals being put out of the 
protection of law. This is called proscription; but here is a law that 
proscribes men, not because they are criminals but simply because of the 
hue imparted to them by the God of Nature. What an unblushing, legalized 
denial of justice to the free citizens of Ohio, black and white; for the 
law operates often times as severely against the one as against the other!" 
By this ambiguous provision, a white man may openly murder another white 
man, and yet walk a free man because the deed was seen only by a Negro! 

"I have already said that these laws are contrary to the spirit of the 
State Constitution. I now go further, and affirm that the law touching 
evidence is a most palpable violation of that instrument. "This is in 
most open disagreement with Article VIII, Section 7 of the state consti- 
tution, and with the U. S. constitution, the highest laws of the state 
and the nation, which provide every man with "right and justice by a due 
course of law." 

There are other features of the black laws which are obnoxious, but 
time permits mention of only a few. Section 5 of these statutes prevents 



191

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1131 - 1134 

NEGROES (Cont'd) 

by a roundabout manner, any black person from receiving aid in a poor house, 

or from any sort of charity. 

"I am far from wishing to impeach the motives of our law makers; but I 
am sorry to see in all these statutes a convicton of wrong-doing, and an 
effort to cover it up, unmanly, and inconsistent with the oath and dignity 
of rulers." 

On the point of education, the state constitution provides common schools 
for all citizens, "of every grade." Yet these black laws of the legislature 
limit school facilities to white residents only. 

"And what must become of the children who are shut out from the bene- 
fits of our excellent school system? There is but one alternative. They 
must either grow up in ignorance and vice, or be educated by private char- 
ity. Is it expedient, then, to establish separate schools for them?.... 

"It requires no prophetic eye to see, that the black laws of Ohio must 
be repealed. The people of this State will not tolerate them much longer. 
We expe;t petitions to roll in upon the ensuing General Assembly. If our 
rulers are wise; if they mean to do justice and judgment; if they consult 
the wishes of the people and the general interests of the State; they will 
repeal without delay. But if they refuse, we shall appeal to heaven and 
the ballot-box and ask for men to rule over us who will dare to do right." 

(75) 

1131 • H Dec. 18:3/1 - We notice that on Monday Mr. Harvey presented in 
the house the petitions of 400 citizens of Cleveland for a repeal of the 
black laws, and of 25C citizens of Cleveland to submit the decision of the 
license question to the people at township elections. 

The petitions were referred to appropriate committees, (verbatim) (1) 

See al§o Lynching; Mobs &amp; Riots; Slavery 

NEWSPAPERS 

1132 - H Jan. 3; ed:3/l - We copied a paragraph last evening from the Buf- 
falo COMMERCIAL, stating that the steamer UNITED STATES, Capt. Whit- 
taker in command, had laid up for the winter, but early this morning we 
recoi,nized the welcome sound of her bell in our port. 

"We are again under many obligations to friend Winslow for a package 
of late Eastern papers, forwarded by the STATES, in advance of the mail." 

(2) 

1133 - H Jan. 3:3/1 - OHIO UNIVERSALIST AND LITERARY COMPANION is 
the title of a new weekly journal established in this city. C. W. Hudson, 
publisher, and George H. Emerson, Editor. The UNIVERSALIST is published 
at $1.00 per annum and is devoted to a dissemination of the liberal tenets 
indicated by the title. (verbatim) (1) 

1134 - H Jan. 17; ed:2/l - "H. E. G." - We welcome this gifted young 
poetess to the columns of the HERALD. The contributions of her muse to 
the N. Y. TRIBUNE and other journals have been much admired and exten- 
sively copied, and give flattering promise that ere long her name will 
rank high in the bright galaxy of lady authors in the West. (verbatim) 

(1) 



192

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts - 1135 - 1141 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1135 - H Jan. 22; ed:3/l - "Reminiscences Of New England History." - 
We commence today the publication of a series of Reminiscences of the 
History of New England, prepared for the HERALD by a worthy and gifted 
descendant of the Pilgrims. They will be read with lively interest by 
the people of "New Connecticut," very many of whom still cherish en- 
during regard and warm affection for the rugged, but dear old home- land, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1136 - H Feb. 19; ed:3/l - "The New York AMERICAN has been united with 
the COURIER AND ENQUIRER, and we are pleased to see that the editorial 
services of Mr. King, of the AMERICAN are secured to the COURIER. With 
Webb, Daniels, Raymond, and King, the COURIER presents a strong array of 
editorial talent." (1) 

1137 - H Feb. 24; ed:3/l - Cassius M. Clay, the philanthropist, has made 
arrangements with a number of anti-slavery Kentuckians, to publish a 
weekly paper at Lexington, Ky., to be called the TRUE AMERICAN, and to 
be devoted to gradual and constitutional emancipation. "Success to the 
AMERICAN and the great object of its establishment." (2) 

1138 - H Mar. 25; adv:2/4 - Messrs. Mfison &amp; Tut tie, 123 Nassau st., and 
Mr. V. B. Palmer, 30 Ann st.. New York, are duly authorized agents of 

the Cleveland HERALD. (verbatim) (1) 

1139 - H Apr. 8:3/1 - Our enterprising neighbor issued the first number 
of the daily PLAIN DEALER yesterday, and a very neat, creditable sheet 

it is, too. (verbatim) (1) 

1140 - H Apr. 10:2/3 - The following spicy love-passage is all in the 
same political family, and is of no moment to the Whigs save to enliven 
a dry, dull time. 

The Cleveland PLAIN DEALER says: We regret, as all friends to us, 
and friends to peace must, the differences which unhappily exist between 
the State Printer and ourself." 

The OHIO STATESMAN says: "Bah! We have other business to attend to 
than having differences with such a petty scamp as is used by others to 
abuse us through the PLAIN DEALER... The PLAIN DEALER is in such odi- 
ous standing at home, that it could not get the printing of the City Council 
of Cleveland, though 10 of the 12 Councilmen are Democrats.... There is 
a day of rich retribution coming to rascals, and we 'shall be glad to 
see it,' as Mr. Clay said about the annexation of Texas. The editor of 
the PLAIN DEALER perhaps is now satisfied that we are at home!" (6) 

1141 - H Apr, 10:3/1 - The readers of the Daily HERALD will be favored 
with a report of the proceedings of the City Fathers during the year. 

We shall also publish the Ordinances, &amp;c. for public information. 

(verbatim) (1) 



193

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1142 - 1147 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1142 - H Apr. 10:3/1 - To Produce Dealers, &amp;c. - After this week, the 
proprietor of this paper relinquishes its commercial department to the 
charge of J. L. Weatherly, who will be solely responsible for its accuracy, 
with the exception of typographical errors. Mr. W, had charge of the same 
from 1840 to 1843 inclusive, and we believe all interested in the trade 
abroad hnd the same confidence in the daily reports that they placed in the 
letters of their correspondents. 

The marine reports rest with the editor, as heretofore. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1143 - H Apr. 10; ed:3/l - In an article in yesterday's PLAIN DEALER the 
editor states that he is grateful to his friends for the early installation 
of his young sheet to the official dignity of doing the city printing. 

The truth is the PLAIN DEALER is doing the work Gratis. 

"This is decidedly 'great cry and little wool, ' and would not have been 
noticed by us, had not the 'official dignity' of our 'grateful' neighbor 
been vain enough to strut in public in false plumes!" (8) 

1144 - H Apr. 11; ed:2/l - Friend Lewis has again resumed the editorship 
of the OHIO STAR and becomes proprietor with Mr. Wadsworth. 

"Like old Vermont he is a Whig 'Star that never sets.'" 

It is stated, too, that friend Dewey, formerly of the OHIO STAR, is 
soon to take charge of the SUMMIT BEACON in connection with Mr. Elkins. 
"The BEACON will continue to exhibit the same true, unwavering Whig light 
that has been so long and brightly kept burning by his able predecessor, 
H. Bowman, Esq." 

Judge Wilson, the veteran pioneer of the press in Ohio, has again re- 
sumed the editorial charge of the Stubenville HERALD, the popular organ 
of the Whigs in Jefferson county. 

"Right welcome to the tripod again, good brothers of the 'art preser- 
vative of all arts, '" (2) 

1145 - H Apr. 12; ed:3/l - John Jones, in his paper on Apr. 7, announces 
the sale of the MADISONIAN establishment to Jesse E. Dow and Theopilus 
Fisk, and takes an affecting leave of the Tyler mourners. 

"Messrs. Dow &amp; Fisk are able and spirited writers, and evidently aim 
to be not only the organ of Mr. Polk but also of the 'Young Democracy.'" 

(2) 

1146 - H Apr. 19:3/1 • The GLOBE of Monday contains the agreement entered 
into between Blair &amp; Rives and Ritchie and Heiss for the transfer of that 
establishment by the former to the latter. The good will and subscription 
list are transferred without charge, the building, types, &amp;c., being paid 
for according to the appraisal of disinterested persons. Blair &amp; Rives 
assign as a reason for the transfer the known fact that the paper under 
their management has incurred the enmity of a portion of the party, and 
they remark that "it is the good fortune of the conductors of the new 
official organ not to have offended any portion of those whose adhesion 

to the party is rendered necessary to its safety and success." (verbatim) 

(2) 

1147 - H May 2; ed:3/l - Friend Dawson has just clothed his spirited Roch- 
ester DAILY DEMOCRAT in the prettiest Boston dress ever turned out by 



194

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1148 - 1153 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

that city of neat notions, and the borders of his sheet are somewhat en- 
larged. "Dawson is a thorough Whig workie (sic) on the stump and with 
the quill, and we rejoice that his talents and services are so well appre- 
ciated and rewarded by the true hearted Whigs of old Monroe." (1) 

1148 - H May 5; ed:3/l - Chillicothe GAZETTE. - This old and influential 
Whig Journal is now published by Mr. C. C. Allen, and is edited by Mr. E. 
G. Squier, late editor of the Hartford, Conn. DAILY AND WEEKLY JOURNAL. 
We welcome Brother Squier to a Western tripod, and congratulate him that he 
has chosen one so stable and honorable as the Chillicothe GAZETTE, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1149 - II May 15; ed:3/l - The PLAIN DEALER of yesterday said: Important 
to advertisers - It may be known that in the six adjoining counties there 
is but one Democratic paper, that is the Cleveland PLAIN DEALER. Mer- 
chants who wish to secure the trade of all these six counties can do so 
only by advertising with us. 

"Fair and honorable competition in business we expect and court, but 
such gross misrepresentations as the above by our neighbor, deceive pub- 
lic exposition. It is true that in the six adjacent counties named but 
one Democratic paper is now published. Democratic papers have been pub- 
lished in all of them except Ashtabula, and in Geauga and Lorain during 
portions of the past year. All have died for want of support except the 
PLAIN DEALER, while each of the counties named have for years supported 
well established and well conducted Whig Journals, and Ashtabula two." 

(4) 

1150 - H May 24; ed:2/l - Our friends of the SUMMIT BEACON have arrayed 
their capital Whig sheet in a suit of new type, an evidence of prosperity 
we are truly gratified to see, for there are no better and more deserving 
members of the craft than Messrs. Dewey and Elkins. (verbatim) (1) 

1151 - H May 27; ed:3/2 - The Toledo BLADE has just been completely fur- 
nished up at the armory of Bruce &amp; Co., New York, and is now keen and 
bright, with the ring of the true Whig metal. 

The editor, Mr. Scott, ranks justly among the ablest of the corps in 
the West, and Mr. Fairbanks leads the column of typos. Toledo is an im- 
portant and thriving business town, and we are glad to see so sterling a 
representative as the trusty BLADE upheld and flourishing. (verbatim) (1) 

1152 - H June 12; ed:3/l - Editors' Luxuries. - Our location is precisely 
the point. Yesterday friend Winslow of the BUNKER sent us a deep water 
luxury from the West, and to-day Capt. Kelsey, of the CHESAPEAKE, a 
splendid live Lobster from ocean- ward. Cleveland, once the far West, has 
become the centre of gravitation! (verbatim) (1) 

1153 - H July 1; ed:3/l - It is stated that Colonel Medary has sold the OHIO 
STATESMAN to the Messrs. Hazewell of Massachusetts for the round sum 

of $16,000 and it is intimated that the Cass interest in Ohio was mainly 
instrumental in effecting the change of ownership. The Toledo BLADE, a 



195

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1154 - 1158 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

very able and candid Whig paper, speaks of the new proprietors favorably 
and says that the STATESMAN will gain a higher reputation than it even 
now has. 

"One thing is certain, the 'hards,' or 'barn burners' of the party, 
who have long looked to Col. Medary as the oracle of true Democracy, 
were taken by surprise by the sale, and feel the withdrawal of Medary to 
be a very serious party affliction in Ohio." (5) 

1154 - H July 2; ed:3/l - Good. - Robert M. Riddle, the Pittsburgh ex- 
Post Master under President Polk, is to become editor of the DAILY 
COMMERCIAL JOURNAL in that city, and he announces that it will be a 
"thorough going Whig Journal." We welcome Mr. R. back to the ranks 
editorial. (verbatim) (1) 

1155 - H July 3:3/1 ■ Tomorrow no HERALD will be issued. - Printers are 
quite too patriotic to use office cannon and shooting sticks on the ever 
thrice "glorious Fourth." (verbatim) (1) 

1156 - H July 8; ed:2/2 - The last number of the OHIO STATESMAN con- 
tains the "valedictory" of its editor, Colonel Medary. He commences his 
"valedictory" by saying that he voluntarily retires, but this assertion was 
not sufficient, and he again declares that this movement on his part is 
entirely voluntary. It seems that the colonel, instead of voluntarily 
retiring has been sacrificed because he was stubborn and advocated doc- 
trines which were radical. Just before the curtain drops, this "obstin- 
ate" editor, who assures us that he retires "voluntarily," turns round 

and exclaims: "Democrats of Ohio, of the Nation, my heart is with you 
in all its warmness and freshness; and because I have adopted this time 
of retiring to a more private position, believe none of the stories that 
my enemies may put in circulation in reference to the subject." 

"Thus triumphantly and 'voluntarily' stepped out Col. Samuel Medary, 
and we are notified that his place will soon be supplied by Mr. Hazewell, 
of Massachusetts." (3) 

1157 - H July 10; ed:3/l - The Democratic state editors' convention in 
Columbus on July 4 passed some distinctly selfish party resolutions on 
a day set aside for national celebration, and no mention was made in 
tribute of the occasion of our independence celebration. "We are not a 
little surprised to note that the Democratic Editors of the State are so 
absorbed in politics that in these 'piping times of peace' they cannot 
forego the subject for a single day, and that day the 4th of July - a 

day consecrated to country and not to party." (4) 

1158 - H July 12; ed:3/l - The Washington correspondent of the New York 
HERALD states that Henry E. Riell is going to start a paper in Washington 
to be sustained by, and for the purpose of sustaining, the old Democracy, 
or "old hunkers." 

"The whole of the Blair &amp; Rives influence in the House will go for 
Riell as printer, Blair &amp; Rives giving way to Riell in the new paper pur- 
chased." (3) 



196

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1159 - 1163 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1159 - H July 18; ed:2/2 - Good Advice. - There are certain persons, 
whom it is unnecessary to mention, who will not find it a difficult 
matter to appropriate to themselves the following seasonable advice - 

Calculatetobeblownskyhighifyouf ingerthetypesinaprintingoff iceortouch- 
anythingintheditor'ssanctum. (verbatim) (1) 

1160 - H July 25; ed:3/l - We are under obligations to Captain Kelsey, • ; 
of the CHESAPEAKE, for a supply of late Eastern papers this morning. 
(verbatim) (1) 

1161 - H July 26; ed:2/2 - The OHIO STATESMAN of Wednesday announces the 
arrival of C. C. Hazewell, and that he will immediately assume the edi- 
torial charge of the paper. The editor pro. tem. announces with regret 
"that some of the subscribers to the STATESMAN are discontinuing their 
papers und^^r the idea that the STATESMAN hereafter will advocate senti- 
ments which it has heretofore repudiated, and that it is to be devoted 

to the interests not of the Democratic party, but of a single individual 
of the party." These "tales" are positively contradicted, and the writer 
says that ^here will be no change in the principles the STATESMAN advo- 
cates. 

"The Cassites of the parly are drawing the wool over pretty adroitly, 
and notwithstanding 'discontinuances,' we presume will do it successfully." 

(3) 

1162 - H July 28; ed:2/l - In his "salutatory," C. C. Hazewell, the new 
editor of The STATESMAN, official Ohio Democratic organ, says it is "the 
first duty of a Democratic editor, in these days, to give to the existing 
administration of the general government a firm and cordial support," 

and "that it will be time enough two years hence to talk about Mr. Polk's 
successor." 

This it is easy to see, therefore: "The STATESMAN is indeed in new 
hands.... It is also free from assaults on our State institutions, and 
we trust the organ of the Democratic party in Ohio will now exhibit less 
of the organ of destructiveness than has heretofore characterised it." (3) 

1163 - H Aug. 2; ed:3/l - This is a moving world - today we part with 

our "grocery" and remove the HERALD offices to Nos. 7 and 8, second story 
of the Merchants' exchange, on Superior st. We leave "our grocery" with 
regret, recalling the heated debates and political discussions of Demos 
and Whigs when the political thermometer ran high; for our place has ever 
been a kind of neutral ground for all parties. Here everything was 
familiar - Chairs for a few, a table for some, a box for others, and a 
standee for many. The old round table, piled with exchanges, with its 
covering worn, bearing evidence of good whittling, will not be so becoming 
in our new quarters. However, it shall come with us, for it has served 
eight years. 

We will miss our pressman, who for so long had faithfully pulled the 
"devil's tail" and run off our papers. He will be replaced by Younglove's 
power press, the most finished and perfect machine of its kind. 

"Long will it be, ere we, or our friends, will feel as much at home in 
another 'grocery.'" (7) 



197

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1164 - 1169 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1164 - H Aug. 2; adv:3/l - Evening HERALD Removal, The Office of the 
Cleveland HERALD has been removed from the Central Buildings, to Nos. 7 
and 8, Second Story, Merchants' Exchange, Superior st. (verbatim) (1) 

1165 - H Aug. 6; ed:2/l - Letters From Europe. Bryant and Willis, two 
of our best American poets and prose writers, are now in Europe, and we 
think we cannot better entertain our readers during this dull season for 
news than to republish the letters as they appear from time to time in 

the N. Y. EVENING POST and N, Y. MIRROR. (verbatim) (1) 

1166 - H Aug. 14; ed:2/l - Ritchie's UNION endorses Hazewell, new editor 
of the OHIO STATESMAN and successor of Colonel Medary, and says that to 
equal Colonel Medary is to follow in his footsteps. 

"How do the Democratic prints of Ohio - lately so loud in their denun- 
ciations of Medary, that his 'voluntary retirement' was a 'forced march' - 
relish Ritchie's advice?" (3) 

1167 - H Aug. 14; ed:3/l - "The Editor" was seen snuffing the morning air 
on a jog trot towards Hudson, about six a.m. It is said he actually sports 
a neckerchief and a pair of gloves. As he is "out," of course he will cor- 
respond. Everybody who leaves town writes back. Newburgh being the first 
watering place, we shall detain the paper until the last possible moment, 

in hopes of hearing from the black horse and rockaway. (verbatim) (1) 

1168 - H Aug. 14; ed:3/l - The Editor is absent in attendance upon the 
Commencement Exercises of the Western Reserve College; for two or three 
days therefore responsibility rests only upon the old round table. Want 
of variety and lack of interest in our columns must be attributed to the 
fact that we are awkward with the scissors, and have not got the hang of 
the old stub of a quill. Some however may be so uncharitable as to sup- 
pose that the quill is in the hands of the original owner - the goose, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1169 • H Aug. 15; ed:2/l - Hazewell, new OHIO STATESMAN editor, announ- 
ces to all that he will fight to the finish all underhanded and slanderous 
attacks on himself. "We have before noticed the war already raging by some 
of the Locofoco prints against the new Editor of the STATESMAN. Those 
restive prints around the State who have succeeded in driving Medary from 
the chair may learn by the following extract from the STATESMAN that its 
present Editor is 'at home' and not to be attacked by every Snarleyow with 
impunity." 

Extract: "But we are resolved that no man shall causelessly assail us - 
that no corrupt ruffian shall with impunity circulate slanders at our expense, 
and for the express purpose of injuring us in the eyes of the OHIO democ- 
racy." (4) 



198

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1170 - 1175 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1170 - H Aug. 16; ed:3/l - Our Valedictory. - The "old round table" re- 
tires from the Editorship, after three days services, wiser in two re- 
spects. First, that editing a daily paper is a "dog's life"; and second, 
that tie public don't begin to appreciate the services of editors and 
printer • not even giving the "devil his due." (verbatim) (1) 

1171 - H Aug. 16:3/1 - A New Locofoco Paper. - Rumor says that a new 
Locofoco paper is to be started in this city; who is to be editor we do 

not hear. (verbatim) (1) 

1172 - H Aug. 19; ed:3/l - Several months ago we published a sketch by 
H. M. T., a local lady correspondent, entitled MARY OR THE BLIGHTED 
HEART. Since that time, this work of an unpretending Reserve log cabin 
writer has been honored with reproduction in Eastern newspapers, and even 
wholesale literary theft in England, where the LONDON WORLD shamelessly 
copied the piece word for word without credit to the writer. 

"A fine tribute truly to the literary talents of the women of the West." 

(4) 

1173 - H Aug. 20: ed:2/l - Letters of N. P. Willis. - The publishers of 
the N. Y. MIRROR have extended their copy right prohibition of the repub- 
lication of the letters of Willis to country journals, except they pay 
$1.00 per letter for the privilege. This they have a right to do, of 
course, but the prohibition is scarcely needed unless Willis writes much 
better hereafter than up to No. 10 of the series. His letters so far have 
been the merest twaddle and not worth the space they fill in a column. 

We published several with the expectation of improvement in the next, but 
really each letter was more worthless than the previous one. Willis had 
better throw away his quill for a season at least. (verbatim) (2) 

1174 - H Aug. 23:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "P." says: I have re- 
ceived copies of the DEMOCRATIC EXPOSITOR and the U. S. JOURNAL, 
and from what I have seen of them I am convinced they have adopted the 
right course to keep their party in power. They take the ground that a 
majority of voters are not enlightened, and that by singing to the masses 
the same tune svng in different keys, the masses will be accustomed to 
the music. The JOURNAL attacks New England manufacturers and cries, 
"Down with the Black Tariff." It claims not to attack northern indus- 
tries but meninges to cry, "we abhor monopolies," asserting such monopo- 
lies are created by the tariff. 

"They tell the masses that they abhor monopolies - that men should be 
just before they are generous. This last phrase I translate, keep all 
you get - get all you can. This is modern democracy - Preach economy and 
equal rights to the masses, while you are enjoying a monopoly which robs 
the whole people out of amounts that make a tariff absolutely necessary." 

(7) 

1175 - H Aug. 25; ed:3/l - Scioto GAZETTE. - This sterling Whig Journal 
has recently been enlarged, and the GAZETTE now claims to be the largest 

as well as the oldest paper in the State of Ohio. It was established in 1800, 



199

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1176 - 1181 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

by Nathaniel Willis, "Printer to the Territorial Legislature." The 
GAZETTE has since, successively, been under the Editorial charge of P. 
Parcells, J. Barnes, J. Bailhache, R. Kercheval, J. W. Pumroy, B. 0. 
Carpenter, and S. W. Ely. It is now edited by E. G. Squier. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1176 - H Sept. 5; ed:3/l - Massillon GAZETTE. ■ Messrs. Wilson and Drews 
have enlarged the GAZETTE and put it in a neat, tasty new dress. It is 
now a good representative of Whig politics and the flourishing town of 
Massillon. (verbatim) (1) 

1177 - H Sept. 12; ed:3/l - Messrs. H. Steele and P. Baxter have just 
started a new paper in this city, the Cleveland TIMES, with Steele acting 
as editor. The TIMES is elegantly printed on good paper, and the edi- 
torials are of good selection. 

"We are glad to see a prjmise that 'all personalities will be studiously 
avoided, as far as possible,' and that the malignant attacks on the enter- 
prize and the characters of the publishers from a certain quarter are 
passed by as they deserve - with silent contempt. 

"Messrs. Steele and Baxter belong to the real working class, and as 
they have the range of a large field for labor in Northern Ohio, their 
enterprize can scarcely fail of success. We wish their TIMES profitable 
in all save politics.'' (2) 

1178 - II Sept. 15; ed:3/2 - The Albany EVENING JOURNAL announces that 
Rufus King of Albany has left for Milwaukie (sic) where he will take up 
his duties as editor of the Milwaukie (sic) DAILY SENTINEL. 

"Gen. K. will prove a most valuable addition to the Western editorial 
corps, and our young sister city of the Lakes is more than fortunate in 
acquisition." (5) 

1179 - H Sept. 15; ed:3/3 - The best cure for hard times is to cheat the 
doctor by being temperate; the lawyer by keeping out of debt; and dema- 
gogue by voting for honest men; and poverty by being industrious; but pay 
the printer if you wish to be happy. (1) 

1180 - H Sept. 16; ed:2/l - The OHIO STATE JOURNAL says it is rumored 
that C. H. Brough and others of Columbus plan to start a new paper in that 
city, which will represent the Van Buren or Benton interests. "We have 

no doubt the establishment of a new paper by Brouph and Company would be 
very acceptable to a large portion of the 'unterrif ied' in Ohio, for the 
course of the new editor of the STATESMAN must be 'gall and wormwood' 
to the Aliens, Tappans, Broughs, Wellers, and Medarys, who have so long 
lorded it over the party." (3) 

1181 - H Sept. 19; ed:2/l,2 - A short time ago Thomas F. Marshall wrote 
us a letter regarding an article in one of our recent papers. He said: 
"The Editor of the Cleveland HERALD in his paper of the 28th ultimo, does 
Mr, Thomas F. Marshall great injustice in the attempt which he makes to 



200

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1182 - 1185 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

produce on the public mind a false impression by the garbled extracts 
which he has given from that gentleman's productions, in regard to his 
position on the subject of slavery. If the Editor could only be just 
enough to publish all Mr. Marshall has said 'pro and con' instead of his 
selected extracts, perhaps he would find in his 'pro and con' nothing but 
the harmony of truth." 

"The extracts which we published were 'selected' but not 'garbled ex- 
tracts, ' - and the sentiments and opinions expressed therein, were neither 
changed or modified by anything preceding or following. We are not in 
the practice of attempting to produce a 'false impression' by garbling or 
perverting the productions of others, and we repel the insinuation con- 
tained in the honorable gentleman's note." (24) 

1182 - H Oct. 9; ed:3/l - We are compelled to crave the indulgence of our 
advertising friends, whose favors were knocked into pi last evening, to- 
gether with the entire reading matter of the inside pages of the HERALD. 
The advertisements will re-appear as soon as disorder can be reduced to 
order by the type-stickers. 

The assistance volunteered by the PLAIN DEALER, AMERICAN and TIMES 
offices, by which we are able to continue our regular publication, is appre* 
ciated • and their kindness will be reciprocated should they ever unfortu- 
nately become the subjects of bad luck. (verbatim) (2) 

1183 - H Oct. 21; ed:2/l - The Locofoco press of Ohio has met with several 
changes in editorship since the election of Colonel Polk, most of the new- 
comers being from "down east." The STATESMAN, the Chill icothe ADVER- 
TISER, The Norwalk EXPERIMENT, and the Cincinnati ENQUIRER - the lat- 
ter now being under eastern ownership - have all made changes. 

"The old Hard leaders have no notion of going down with the rotten hulk 
of Locofocoism, and with the instinct of rats desert the sinking ship." 

(3) 

1184 - H Oct. 25; ed:2/2 - The new editor, Hazewell, writing in the OHIO 
STATESMAN, blasts, in a surprisingly strong manner, against bis own Loco 
bard friends, in a late issue; the recent Loco defeat seeming to react on 
him more than the Maumee miosma he resides in. He even omits the Christian 
notation, "Yours affectionately," in an editorial ripping his Loco compan- 
ions. 

"Deplorable destitution! is it not? 

"Seriously, we had hoped better things of the Massachusetts Editor as 
the organ of the Locofoco party in Ohio. We had hoped that with Medary's 
withdrawal vindictive and scurrilous personalities would cease, and a 
purer and more elevated character would be acquired by the party press of 
our State." (13) 

1185 - H Oct. 27; ed:3/l - Change. - Friend Smythe has retired from the 
publication and editorship of the Painesville TELEGRAPH. We bow Mr. S. 
out of the corps with regret, for he was ever an agreeable neighbor, and 
telegraphed rousing Whig majorities from flourishing Lake. Mr. H. C. Gray, 
who succeeds him, will do likewise, and we heartily welcome friend G to the 
tripod again. (verbatim) (1) 



201

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 11S6 - 1191 ■■.i' • . 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1186 - H Oct. 27; ed:3/l - We have received No. 1, of the Milwaukie (sic) 
DAILY GAZETTE, published by Wm. Duane Wilson - W. D. Wilson &amp; I. S. 
Rowland Editors; Elisha Starr, Commercial and Local Editor. The GAZETTE 
is published on new material, is of creditable size, and makes a very neat 
appearance. Whig in politics, and conducted with the well known ability 

of its corps of editors, the GAZETTE cannot fail of becoming a valuable 
adjunct to the press of the flourishing Territory and to the young city that 
has sprung as of a night from wilderness to a busy mart of commerce. Abun- 
dant success attend the new enterprize and all connected therewith, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1187 ■ H Oct. 28; ed:3/l - The new Editor of the Cincinnati ENQUIRER says: 
"Were we permitted to make a world, we would make no knaves or fools." 

He is the first man we ever knew who would bite his own nose off. What 
would become of the leaders of his party if he had the making of a world? 
(verbatim) (1) 

1188 - H Oct. 29; ed:3/l - The New York COURIER AND ENQUIRER is dough- 
faced enough to defend the verdict of the Lexington Jury, in acquitting the 
mobocrats of the 18th of August last. This is the only Whig paper in the 
free States that goes for the "respectable mobocrats." An enviable posi- 
tion truly! (verbatim) (1) 

1189 - H Oct. 29; ed:3/l - Mr. Case, of the Cincinnati ENQUIRER, says: 
"Did we live in a slave State, we would participate with the intelligent 
and patriotic." • 

Poor fellow, he is sick of his company already. (verbatim) (1) 

1190 - H Nov. 1; ed:3/l - Did the Milwaukie (sic) DAILY GAZETTE die "a 
bornin?" We have received but a single number. 

Judging from the dates of Milwaukie (sic) papers received here, it is the 
most out of the way place this side of the Rocky Mountains. The papers 
are generally from 10 to 15 days old, and come in a heap at that, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1191 - H Nov. 5; ed:2/l,2 - The Cincinnati CHRONICLE, noticing the re- 
marks of the HERALD concerning the favoritism shown the Queen city in 
previous state legislation, tenders the following: "We hope that the edi- 
tor of the HERALD merely penned the above in a moment of disappointment 
with reference to the political majority in this county, and that it does 
not indicate feelings of hostility towards the interests of Cincinnati." 

"No! brethren of the Cincinnati press, far be it from us to harbor any 
hostility towards your city. We thought you needed to be stirred up a 
little by way of remembrance to good works, and we think our object is 
accomplished. Ere long we hope to be drawn by the iron horse to see you 
in your own happy and beautiful homes, so that our own eyes may behold the 
extent of the business as well as the magnificence of that city of which 
every true hearted Buckeye, come from where he may, is proud." (24) 



202

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1192 -1197 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1192 - H Nov. 8; ed:3/l - The Cincinnati ATLAS remarks that the Cleveland 
HERALD is especially gifted in its poet -correspondents, the work of these 
Cleveland poets being as pearls compared with the usual trashy mush pub- 
lished in newspapers. 

"The compliment paid to the correspondents of this journal - among 
whom we are happy to number several gifted lady writers - is well de- 
served. The 'gem' so prized by our Cincinnati friends, was addressed 
'To Roscoe'; and with great pleasure we present our readers with another 
'pure and perfect gem,' from the rich mental casket of the same fair 
correspondent • a gem which would not disparage the coronet of a 
Sigourney or a Bryant." (5) 

1193 - H Nov. 19:2/2 - There will be no HERALD issued tomorrow, Thanks- 
giving day. (1) 

1194 - H Nov. 29; ed:2/l - It is suggested by an exchange paper, that, 
as in marriages the name of the clergyman is given, in deaths the name 
of the attending physician should be announced. If the doctors think so, 

we will not object. (verbatim) (1) 

1195 - H Dec. 6:2/1 - By meeting the mail at Ravenna at 11 a.m. today, 
and anticipating its arrival here some hours, we are enabled to lay the 
long message of President Polk before our readers this evening. 

Our hearty thanks to friend Wadsworth of the OHIO STAR for a copy of 
the document, and the Ravenna Postmaster for his readiness to oblige, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1196 - H Dec. 11; ed:3/l - The facts in regard to the "Lock and Key" 

part of the "Tale" in the PLAIN DEALER of last evening are briefly these. 
On Dec. 5 we obtained the keys for the Ravenna postoffice from the chief 
clerk of our postoffice, to enable us to secure a copy of the President's 
message to publish in our issue of Dec. 6. These facts we stated in 
person to the editor of the PLAIN DEALER yesterday morning, before his 
article of last night, charging Mr. Spencer with "collusion" and "high- 
handed villainy," was put in type. 

We publish these fats as a simple act of justice to the Cleveland 
post master. 

"At the time, we were not aware of the Post Office regulations touch- 
ing the matter, and the Chief Clerk evidently acted without reflection 
or intentional wrong." (6) 

1197 - H Dec. 11; ed:3/l - The "manifold errors," as lawyers say, which 
our readers may find in this and a few succeeding numbers are owing to 
the Editor's (sic) absence, who is off "sliding down hill." The "old 
round table" will duly notice any nice articles provided samples are 
banded in - except patent medicines. (1) 



203

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1198 - 1206 

NEWSPAPERS (Cont'd) 

1198 - H Dec. 24; ed:2/3 - We shall observe a custom among printers, 
about as old as the publishing of newspapers, and not issue a paper to- 
morrow, (verbatim) (1) 

1199 - H Dec. 31:3/1 - No paper will be issued to-morrow, as it is one 
of the few holidays enjoyed by Printers. The Carriers will make their 
accustomed greetings to Patrons. (verbatim) (1) 

Mastheads &amp; Title Plates 



1200 - H Jan. 3:1/1-7 -THE CLEVELAND HERALD. 

Cleveland, Ohio - Friday, January 3, 1845. 
Vol. X No. 163 

(14) 

1201 - H July 1:1/1-7 -The Cleveland HERALD. 

Vol. XI. Cleveland, Ohio --- Tuesday, July 1, 1845. No. 7 

(10) 

1202 . H July 1:2/1 - DAILY HERALD. Published Daily in the Central 
Buildings, by J. A. Harris, 

Terms - Daily Paper eight dollars per annum, payable half-yearly- 
Country Paper two dollars per annum, payable in advance. All new adver- 
tisements appear in both papers. (1) 

See also Libel &amp; Slander; Periodical Publications, Printing &amp; Publishing. 

NORMAL SCHOOLS. See Education - Normal Schools 

OIL 

1203 - H July I; adv:l/2 - Ohio Lard Oil Factory, Columbus st., opposite 
Cleveland Centre Block. Lard Oil for sale by the barrel and retail. (I) 

1204 - H Aug. 12; adv:2/5 - Selling Off - The subscribers being desirous: 
to close up their Lard Oil Establishment, offer the following articles 
low for Cash; 20 carboys Oil Vitriol, 2 bbls. cheap oil for machinery, 
50 bus. Lime, 50 bxs. Stearine Candles, a few bbls. Superior oil - 
Brayton &amp; Co. (verbatim) (1) 

ORGANIZATIONS 

1205 - H May 21:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "S. L. B." says: The 
Social band, an association of young gentlemen and ladies of our city, 
closed the winter's amusement with a picnic, to which the taste, beauty, 
and gaiety of our belles lent their charms. "It is perhaps enough to say 
that the beauty of Cleveland was there, and where all excel, how can I 
particularise?" (9) 

1206 - H Oct. 6:2/4 - The annual meeting of the Martha Washington and 
Dorcas Society, will be held at the Society's rooms, on Tuesday afternoon 
at 2 p.m. A general attendance of the members is requested. (1) 



204

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1207 - 1209 

ORGANIZATIONS (Cont'd) 

Cultural 

1207 • H Nov. 25:3/1 • Tbe Academy of Natural Science, a society of 
more than 90 members, met last evening in the council hall to elect 
officers. Mr. Beattie was called to the chair. Dr. J. P. Kirtland 

was elected president by a unanimous vote. The following officers were 
then chosen by ballot: Sherlock J. Andrews, first vice president; Dr. 
Samuel St. John, corresponding secretary; and M. C. Younglove, treasurer. 
Eight curators were also elected. 

The society then resolved, upon Kingsley's motion, that the recording 
secretary take the proper steps to incorporate the society under the 
provisions of an act of the legislature passed Mar. 11, 1845, "To 
regulate Literary, and other Societies." (7) 

Welfare 

1208 - H June 5:2/2 - Firemen's Relief Association. - At an election 
held by the Fire Department Tuesday evening, J. J. Vinall was elected 
President, John Forbey Secretary, and James Proudfoot Treasurer, of the 
Association. (verbatim) (1) 

1209 - H Oct. 18; ed:3/l - The "Martha Washington and Dorcas Society" 
have commenced their operations for the winter. It is most earnestly 
hoped that all its members will be in attendance at the next meeting at 
the Society's rooms, on Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. The accomoda- 
tions are most ample, so that all may come, and lend a helping hand in 
clothing the miserable and destitute, sick and poor of our city - "For 

the poor ye shall always have with you." (verbatim) (1) 



205

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1840 

Abstracts 1210 - 1213 

PLACEHOLDER

PACKING INDUSTRY 

1210 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 21, the mar- 
shal was authorized to abate and clear nuisances at B. Stedman's slaugh- 
tering house. (1)

1211 - H Apr. 8; ed:2/l - The Western Reserve will this season furnish the 
English epicures with the finest beef ever exported from this country. Our 
enterprising fellow-citizen, Norman C. Baldwin, Esq., commenced slaughter- 
ing and packing at his establishment on the island, at the mouth of the river, 
on Oct. 15 and closed on April 1. 

"The Beef trade with England is opening a fresh source of prosperity to 
our agricultural friends, and should induce them to look well to, and im- 
prove their stock, for the enterprise of Mr. Baldwin has scattered over 
fifty thousand dollars among the Reserve Farmers the past season, the large 
portion in Summit and Portage counties. We trust John Bull will not only 
relish his Beef, but pay him well for it." (8) 

1212 - H Nov. 29:2/1 - The meat packing establishment of N. C. Baldwin is 
erected at the base of the hill near the old mouth of the Cuyahoga, and is 
so arranged as to allow for a constant stream of water to pass through 
each department, the water being pumped through lengths of hose. 

The bleeding room is kept immaculately clean, and the meat cleansed thor- 
oughly with fresh spring water, in a manner to please the most particular. 

Cutting and packing is done entirely by labor hired especially for the 
purpose in England. These workers, knowing English market requirements, 
make possible larger sales of local meat abroad. 

On an average, the establishment has 45 head of cattle slaughtered daily, 
and perhaps 5.000 head during the entire winter season. The beef, princi- 
pally from cattle procured in central Ohio, is packed in 304-lb. tierces for 
foreign shipments. In addition to this, Baldwin's works slaughter 250 
sheep daily, and some 16,000 during an average winter packing season. 

A steam works, attached to the establishment, is ingeniously arranged 
for economically rendering the tallow. (6) 

1213 - H Nov. 29:2/1 - D. M. Haskell's large packing house is located about 
two miles from the city, on the Kinsman road. Haskell employs 30 workers, 
disposes of some 40 to 50 head of cattle per day, and packs from 70 to 90 
tierces daily. 

The slaughtering and cutting house is 110 feet long by 30 wide. Under- 
neath it is a stone cellar, 25 feet by 60, used for "blooding" the meat. 
Two springs of water are conducted into five large pine vats of a capacity 
of 100 beef tierces in all. After blooding, the meat goes into an adjoin- 
ing packing house, 40 feet by 40, where it is prepared for shipment. 

Haskell commenced slaughtering on Oct. 14, and expects to produce some 
8,000 tierces during the winter. (6) 



206

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1214 - 1220 

PACKING INDUSTRY (Cont'd) 

1214 - H Nov. 29; ed:2/l - Few of our readers are aware to what extent 
the slaughtering and packing of meat for shipment abroad are carried on 
in the immediate vicinity of our city. Few who read the accounts of 
lucrative shipments of beef to England ever imagine to whom the proceeds 
of these shipments recur. The general impression is that the packer 

and shipper are the chief gainers, but in truth the farmer is the one 
most benefited. 

"The advantages of this growing branch of business to Western farmers 
cannot be better illustrated than by visiting the immense packing estab- 
lishments of two of our enterprizing fellow-townsmen, Mr. N. C. Baldwin 
and Mr. D. M. Haskell." (4) 

PAINTS &amp; VARNISHES 

1215 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - M. Carson, Painter, Glazier, and dealer in 
Paints, Paper Hangings, Glass, etc., No. 10 Water street. (1) 

1216 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - D. Jones &amp; Co., Dealer in Wall and Window 
Paper, Paints, Oils, Varnish, Sash and Glass; Window Shades, Cords and 
Tassels at No. 37 Water st. N. B. All at reduced prices for cash. (1) 

1217 - H July 2; adv: 1/5 - Bronzes - GoH, Silver, Copper. White Metal, 
Scarlet, Green &amp;c., Bronzes; also Gold, Silver and French Leaf, for sale 

by Handerson &amp; Panderson. (1) 

1218 • H Aug. 19:2/2 • To Make Paint Durable. - Dissolve an old India 
rubber shoe of common size in three or four gallons of oil, by heating 
it; and put on the paint after being prepared, while it is warm - White 
lead and oil make an iiriperfect body, and will soon wash off. India rub- 
ber added to paint, makes it glossy and durable. (verbatim) (1) 

PARDONS. See Commutations &amp; Pardons 

PARTNERSHIPS. See Incorporations &amp; Partnerships 

PATENT MEDICINE. See Drugs &amp; Druggists 

PENAL &amp; CORRECTIVE INSTITUTIONS 

1219 - H Jan. 7; ed:3/l - Pursuant to the conditions of his sentence, 
Torrey was on Monday afternoon transferred from the jail to the walls of 
the penitentiary, and placed in the weaving department. He entered up- 
on his new station with cheerfulness and resignation, and seemed to have 
well disciplined his mind to contentment in his involuntary calling, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1220 • H Jan. 31:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Prisoner" says: 
"Accidentally or providentially your weekly paper of Jan. 18 was sent to 
me, and I have read with the greatest interest the excellent article of 
'H. M. T. ' under the caption 'Sympathy for Prisoners,' also your remarks 



207

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1221 - 1224 

PENAL &amp; CORRECTIVE INSTITUTIONS ^.Cont'd) 

and notice of Mr. Child's letter. 

That there has been a great change in prison discipline and in the 
interest felt in the prisoners' welfare is freely admitted. However, is 
it not true that much yet remains to be done? "The veriest criminal on 
earth knows when injustice is done him; and is it not injustice when the 
four hundred and sixty-three convicts of the penitentiary are made to 
earn some thirty-two thousand doUrirs a year, nut of which sum they have 
only the pittance needed for their 'coarse, cheap clothing' and their 
'coarse food?' thus leaving more than eighteen thousand dollars revenue 
for the State over and above all expenses, they not having a cent of 
this money for themselves or families." 

"There is a principle in every man's bosom that will answer to just 
and kind tre'itraent, no matter whether that man walks unmolested in the 
world, or whether he occupies a felon's cell." (17) 

1221 - H Apr. 7; ed:3/1 - The people of Louisville biast of a splendid 
new jail, with turrets and plenty of ornamental work. 

The substantials were not so well looked to, for ..n the night of 
Mar. 31 four prisoners escaped by picki.ig the Iccks. (1) 

1222 - H July 24:2/2 - In a lett'^r *o the editor, Rutland says: Permit 
me to call the attention of this enlightened community to our county 
jail. It is located in a part of the city thickly settled, where fresh 
air is at a premium. The cells are dark and s uffy, and the innocent 
and guilty are cast together where obeJience to nature's laws would be 
revolting to humanil}. The fault is not with the jailer, but with the 
jail itself. 

"In such a condition, what ran compensate the wrongs the innocent 
suffer? • And in such a condition, how can the guilty be reformed?... 

"But the difficulties mig't be obviateJ in a great measure, in the 
construction of a new jail com tk ns. rate with the wants of the county. 
It shoulj be built with sufficient ro^ms, properly constructed above, 
where unaJulterated air could circul.ite." (7) 

See also Commutations &amp; Pardors; Crime &amp; Criminals 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS 

1223 - H Jan. 11:3/1 - The February number of GRAHAM'S MAGAZINE which 
we have just received is truly a splendid one, containing no less than 
five elegint steel engravings, besides its usual quantum of reading 
matter from many of the best writers of literature in this country. 

The work is furnished at three dollars per year, or two copies for 
five dollars. Address G. R. Graham, Philadelphia. (5) 

1224 - H Jan. 14:3/1 - The January number of the new and promising 
WESTERN LITERARY JOURNAL AND MONTHLY REVIEW has just been 
issued and is before us. We are pleased to learn from the editors 
that it bids fair for a long and prosperous career. 



208

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1225 ■ 1230 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS (Cont'd) 

The work is published at Cincinnati: Price three dollars per year, 
in advance. (3) 

1225 - II Jan. 18:3/3 - SHEET ANCHOR. - This excellent journal, devoted 
to the interests of seamen, has entered upon a 3d volume. It is pub- 
lished semi-monthly in Boston at one dollar per year, and is edited 

with spirit and ability by the Rev. Charles W. Denison. Our nautical 

friends will find it a genuine "shot in the locker," blow high, blow 

low. (verbatim) (1) 

1226 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - THE ODD FELLOWS OFFERING, for 1845, edited 
by Paschal Donaldson; BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE for December and LADIES' 
NATIONAL for January, for sale by M. C. Younglove. (verbatim) (1) 

1227 - H Feb. 11; ed:3/l - We invite the attention of the good people in 
all the Lake country to the prospectus of Mr. Elliott. His proposed maga- 
zine, WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE, 
will no doubt be one of the most valuable published in the west, and we 
wish his undertaking full measure of success. (1) 

1228 - II Mar. 11; ed:2/l - We have received the February number of the 
AMERICAN REVIEW, a Whig journal of politics. It is the intention of the 
editor to have such a combination of talent enlisted in its support as will 
give it a high rank amcng the literary periodicals of the day. 

"It is the political tendency and ability of the work to which we wish 
to call the attention of the Whigs of the Western Reserve, for the lead- 
ing opinions of the Whigs, are, we believe, the only ones on which a 
free government can continue its existence; and every Whig is interested 
in having them ably and eloquently spread over the Republic through an 

acknoAledged organ of the party The Whigs of the Western Reserve 

have a celebrity through the whole Union for their unvarying devotion to 
the great cause in which they are interested, and we trust they will give 
to this new ally that encouragement and support which its ability and 
promise of usefulness entitle it to." (9) 

1229 - H Mar. 17; ed:3/I - William C. Bell, agent for subscriptions to 
the TRUE AMERICAN, is in our city and will devote several days to call- 
ing upon those who wish to subscribe. 

"We trust a liberal number of copies will be taken, for much of the 
support necessary to establish and continue the proposed journal must 
necessarily, in the outset, come from the philanthropic of the free 
States. 

"Mr. Clay and his associates will no doubt make a paper intrinsically 
valuable, and the great affect they have in view command itself to the 
hearty approval of every freeman." (3) 

1230 - H Apr. 1:3/1 - The WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE 
AND HORTICULTURE. Edited by F. R. Elliott. Published monthly by 



209

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1231 • 1233 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS (Cont'd) 

M. C. Younglove, Cleveland, Terms one dollar a year. The contents of the 
magazine for March Vol. 1, No. 1, are: "The Pear," "Professor Kirtland On 
Location Of Orchards," "Seedling And Incorrectly Named Fruit," "Planting 
Trees." "Selection Of Seed=," "Carbonic Acid A Fertilizer Of Soils," 
by Professcr St. John, "India Rubber For Stables," "On The Cultivation 
Of Strawberries," by A. Mcintosh, "Premature Decay Of Potatoes," "Cleve- 
land Horticultural Society," "Calendar For April," "Ourself," and miscel- 
laneous items. The illustrations are: "Marie Louise Pear," "Winter 
Nelis Pear," "Autumnal Marrow Squash," "Hovey's Strawberry," and "Un- 
named Apple." 

The initiatory nimber of the WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE OF AGRICUL- 
TURE AND HORTICULTURE must favorably attract the attention of every 
friend of the arts it advocates. Its tvpographical appearance is very 
creditable to the enterprising publisher, the illustrations are good, and the 
articles by the editor and well-known contributors, are plain, practical, 
and impart valuable information. The editor is familiar with and devoted 
to his profession. He combines a knowledge of book-farming with exper- 
ience, and enjo\s every facility for treasuring in the WESTERN RESERVE 
MAGAZINE a priceless fund of important facts connected with agriculture 
and horticulture, w'lich every person may obtain and profit by for the 
trifle of one dollar a year. To our friends in the whole lake region we 
most cordially commend the magazine, fully believing that a yearly dis- 
tribution of 500 copies in each of the Reserve counties, would yield an 
hundred fold return in improved farms, improved crops, improved stocks, 
improved orchards, and above all in an improved and enlightened taste in 
the young for the ancient, honorable, and useful pursuit of agriculture 
and horticulture. (6) 

1231 - H Apr. 5; ed:3/l - The TRUE AMERICAN has conferred the agency of 
the journal upon two worthy young men in this city, Messrs. G. F. Gidings 
and E. B. Mastick. 

"They purpose soon to visit different portions of the Reserve, and we 
trust a generous addition will be made to the subscription list of the 
TRUE AMERICAN." (1) 

1232 - H May 16:3/1 - THE WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE 
AND HORTICULTURE - The May number of this valuable magazine was out 
yesterdiy. The contents of the May number fully sustain the useful character 
of the work. Edited by F. R. Elliott; published monthly by M. C. Young- 
love, at $1.00 per year. (2) 

1233 - H June 18; ed:2/l - We have received the last number of the first 
volume of the AMERICAN REVIEW which contains the conclusion of the arti- 
cle on election frauds in 1844. Every Whig in the union who can afford 

to spend five dollars should send it to t^e editor, G. H. Colton, 118 
Nassau st., N. Y. 

"Their political monthlies are a political blessing; they are more 
lucid, more temperate and dignified than the dailies and weeklies; they 



210

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1234 - 1239 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS (Cont'd) 

are at the same time more efficient, because they are more temperate. 

If there is any Whig who cannot take this journal, let him buy the two 

last numbers at 20 cents each, of Mr. Younglove, and if he cannot do 

this, borrow them of some friend; for hard as it may be to borrow such 

things, we think the developments of those numbers should be scattered 

the country through." (9) 

1234 - H June 19:2/1 - The WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE. ■ We publish 
today an article from this new Magazine, which we think valuable to every 
person. It is from the pen of Prof. J. P. Kirtland, whose experience and 
knowledge on these matters is surpassed by none other in the State. 

What success the publishers have in procuring subscriptions, we know not, 
but the manner in which the work is conducted deserves the favor of all. 
The articles of its numerous contributors already procured, are, in each 
number yet published, alone worth the subscription. (verbatim) (2) 

1235 - H July 1; adv:2/5 - NATIONAL MAGAZINE for July, received by 

M. C. Younglove. (1) 

1236 - H Julv 18; adv:3/l - The July number of the WESTERN RESERVE 
MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE has been issued by 
Younglove. The price is one dollar per year and the publication is of 
immense value to those who till the soil. 

"A little retrenchment of some useless expenditures will save the 
dollar, and your family will bless you for its appropriation to procure 
a wholesome monthly mental repast. Try it." (3) 

1237 - H July 25; ed:3/l - Mr. Jesse E. Dow, of the United States (would- 
be official) JOURNAL, says Mr. Polk will not run in 1848. "If he does," 
the editor adds, "the U. S. JOURNAL will give him Jesse." So Mr. Polk 
may not know what he has to depend on. (verbatim) (1) 

H July 26; ed:3/l,2 - See War 

1238 - H Aug. 20:3/1 - The August number of the WESTERN RESERVE 
MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE has been issued from 
the press of Mr. Younglove, and the table of contents shows that it is 

a valuable copy. (verbatim) (2) 

1239 - H Aug. 23; ed:2/l • We have received the second number of the FARM- 
ER'S LIBRARY AND MONTHLY JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE, edited by T. S. 
Skinner, late assistant post master general, and known as founder of the 
first agricultural periodical published in this country, THE AMERICAN 
FARMER. The volume, 112 pages in all, contains articles on agricultural 
chemistry, and selections and useful hints from the best European farm 
journals. We therefore commend it to the favorable consideration of our 



211

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1240 - 1244 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS (Cont'd)

agricultural friends. 

"The work is well got up, the engravings well executed, and printed 
with good type, on excellent paper." It is published by Greely &amp; Mc- 
Elratb, Tribune Office, New York, at $5 per annum. (4) 

1240 • H Sept, 23; ed:3/2.3 - Camp and Wilkes co., of New York are the 
publishers of the NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE (two dollars per year), 
which is always filled with valuable and informative crime statistics in 
various large cities. 

"We should think Police Officers would be benefited by subscribing 
for the work." (3) 

1241 - H Sept. 27; ed:3/l - That excellent Whig journal, the AMERICAN 
REVIEW, has just issued its September number. Its able pages include 
an article on the possibility of war with Mexico and the advisability 
of preparedness, some good poetry, and several travel articles. The 
piece on the National institute at Philadelphia is especially informa- 
tive. 

"But it must be remembered by all Whigs who appreciate the importance 
of such an able expositor and defender of their principles, that its 
existence demands a generous patronage. Let not the Whigs of the Reserve 
delay their subscriptions - let them not suffer a libel on their patriotism 
and prudence, to remain in the books of the AMERICAN REVIEW." (7) 

H Sept. 27:3/1 - See Churches &amp; Sects - Universal ist 

1242 - H Oct. 24; ed:3/l - The publishers of the NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER 
propose to issue a weekly to be known as the CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGEN- 
CER, the paper to narrate the daily doings, speeches, and reports of Con- 
gress while it is in session. 

"It will be the best cheap record extant of the doings in Congress, and 
we bespeak for it the patronage of intelligent and thoughtful readers." (1) 

1243 - H Oct. 25; ed:2/2 - The October number of the WESTERN RESERVE 
MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE, sustains the high rep- 
utation of the work. It is illustrated with an engraving of the "Golden 
Ball" peach, a valuable seedling raised by Mrs. William Smyth of Cleveland. 
There are also articles on tree transplanting, the potatoe bug, and on the 
larva which is at present destroying black-oaks in northern Ohio. (6) 

1244 - H Nov. 4; ed:2/l - The proprietors of the STATE JOURNAL have 
given their excellent sheet an elegant new dress, and propose to issue 
a Daily during the coming session of the Legislature at $3.00, a Tri- 
Weekly at $1.50, and a Weekly at 50 cents. The legislation of the Gen- 
eral Assembly will be of interest, and the reports of the JOURNAL will 
give the full proceedings of Senate and House. We trust the JOURNAL 
will be extensively circulated on the Reserve, for it is well worthy of 
liberal Whig support. (verbatim) (2) 



212

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1245 - 1248 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS (Cont'd) 

1245 ■ H Nov. 18; ed:2/l - The first volume of the AMERICAN REVIEW, the 
Whig journal of politics, literature, art, and science will close with the 
year, and all good Whigs who would sustain a REVIEW worthy of the prin- 
ciples of their party should be sure to remit five dollars, the subscription 
price. It is published by Wiley and Putnam, New York. 

"To make it really permanent, the REVIEW should have the cordial, 
liberal and unwavering support of the Whigs of the Republic, and it is 
the special duty of the Whigs of the strong citadels of the party - our 
own glorious Reserve for example - to generously sustain a journal de- 
voted to the promulgation and advocacy of sound, safe, conservative prin- 
ciples - 'liberty under law, progress without destroying, protection to 
everything established worthy of national honor.'" (5) 

1246 - H Dec. 2:3/1 - We learn that a journal of medical and physical 
sciences is to be published soon in Cleveland, with J. J. Delamater, 
M.D., professor of anatomy at the Medical college, as editor. The mag- 
azine will form a communicating vehicle for the dissemination of news 
and intelligence to the medical profession in general. It will also em- 
brace topics relating to the physical sciences, and will receive commun- 
ications from our western naturalists. (4) 

See also Books &amp; Authors; Newspapers 

1247 - H Dec. 10; ed:2/3 - "The Speakership is the caption to an able 
and interesting article in a late number of the New York COURIER AND 
ENQUIRER. After remarking upon the dignity and responsibility of the 
post of speaker, the article goes on to say that during the 50 years 
since Congress has been established, this position has been held by a 
representative from Virginia for nine years, by one from Kentucky for 
ten years, and by one from New York for but three years. 

"It seems for once that the 'Old Dominion' has inadvertantly, in the 
case of Speaker, been left in the rear of Kentucky. This is an over- 
sight, and we trust the 'Mother of Presidents' will see to it that jus- 
tice be done her." 

The article further says that New Yt)rk is indebted to Taylor for hav- 
ing rescued that city from being a vacancy in the parliamentary dignity 
of the confederacy. 

"The country owes Mr. T. a debt of gratitude for the long life spent 
in its service, and we, in common with our citizens, feel Cleveland 
honored in being selected as a residence for the evening of his days." 

(19) 

1248 - H Dec. 30:2/4 - Local booksellers have on sale the NATIONAL 
MAG\ZINE of New York, which journal contains an article by John Barr, 
Esq., of this city, describing the Western Reserve and Cleveland, its 

lake commerce, and important business statistics. (1) 



213

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1249 • 1254 

PLACEHOLDER

PERSONS &amp; PERSONAGES 

1249 - H Jan. 21; ed:3/l - Bill For The Relief Of Gen. Brainard. - We 
are pleased to see that the U. S. Senate have ordered a bill for the re- 
lief of Gen. Asahel Brainard to be engrossed for a third reading. - 

The bill provides for arrears of pension to this brave and meritorous 
officer, and is a measure of justice long withheld from one of the 
shattered and mutilated victims of hard fought battles on the Northern 
frontier. We earnestly hope the bill will be favorably acted on by 
both Houses, and speedily. (verbatim; (1) 

1250 - H Apr. 11; ed:3/l - It was reported in Texas at the latest dates 
that Santa Anna had made his escape. - 

"Should not wonder, as he is noted for slipping his neck out of the 
noose." (1) 

1251 - H June 14; ed:2/l - General Donald McLeod, who took an active 
part in the late Canadian rebellion, and who has been an exile in this 
countrv since ISST, has been unconditionally pardoned by the Canadian 
government. "He will now obtain possession of his extensive property in 
the Province: and bis numerous friends in this city, where he has resided 
for sometime past and along the whole Lake frontier, will be gratified 

at this happy change of fortune." (2) 

1252 - H June 17; ed:2/l • John Davis of Massachusetts, ex-senator in 
Congress, ex-governor in his native state, and now senator elect in Con- 
gress, has spent the past several days visiting in Cleveland, leaving 
the city last evening for the east. 

"He is a man of talents, education, and of the most inflexible integ- 
rity - of the soundest judgment • of great firmness - eminently prac- 
tical in all his views, and admirably fitted by nature and habit as a 

statesman, In meet any emergency Well may we rejoice that in times 

like these, the good old Bay State sends such men as Daniel Webster and 
honest John Davis, as his neighbors call him, to the Senate of the United 
States, where they can serve not only their immediate constituents, but the 
whole people of the Union." (5) 

1253 - H July 1:3/1 - Jacob F. Hoffman, Read This! - Jacob F. Hoffman, 
who settled in Ohio about ten years ago, will learn something to his ad- 
vantage by writing to his brother, John Hoffman, Pavilion, Genesee Co., 
N. Y., or A. P. Hascall, Leroy, Genesee Co., N. Y. Editors in Ohio are 
requested to notice. (verbatim) (1) 

1254 - H Aug. 5; ed:3/2 - One morning as a teacher of a school in Plain- 
field, Conn., entered his school -house, he was accosted by a coarse look- 
ing lad who earnestly inquired whether or not the teacher knew of any 
place where he could work for his board and attend school. He got a 
situation as hostler in a tavern and attended school regularly. The 
teacher soon saw that rare gems of genius were concealed beneath that 



214

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1255 - 1262 

PERSONS &amp; PERSONAGES (Cont'd) 

rough exterior and kindly lent him every aid in his power. At the close 
of the district school Reverend Halleck helped him enter college, where 
he graduated with the highest honors. 

"The world has appreciated his superior gifts, and acknowledged him 
as one among the chosen few. It is needless to say more, for who has 
not heard of Jonas King?" (4) 

1255 - H Aug. 11; ed:3/l - The Hon. George P. Marsh, of Vermont, we are 
happy to learn from the Troy WHIG, is in good health, and that it was an 
error, that he was suffering from a complaint in his eyes. • An afflic* 
tion of that nature, under which his excellent lady is suffering, gave 

rise to the mistake. So says the "Troy WHIG." (verbatim) (1) 

1256 - H Sept. 30:3/1 - Mr. Gough. - This gentleman has published a full 
statement of all the circumstances connected with his late fall. He in- 
sists that the soda he drank was drugged to such a degree that it took 

away his senses. (verbatim) (1) 

1257 • H Oct. 4:2/4 - Commodore Elliott has had a relapse of his former 
malady, from which he is not likely to recover. (verbatim) (1) 

1258 - H Oct. 17; ed:2/2 - The Detroit ADVERTISER states that Birney 
is fast losing his voice through a series of paralytic attacks, and may be 
forced to conclude his public career. 

"We have not abated one jot or tittle of our opposition to his course 
in the late presidential election, but we lament as sincerely as his 
warmest supporters the calamity which has apparently prostrated his 
powers." 



(2) 



1259 - H Nov. 26; ed:2/l - The Hon. J. Q. Adams has been unable to at- 
tend the unveiling of the Caldwell monument at Elisabethtown, N. J., 
because of what he describes as "my outward vestment of decay." 

"The venerable John Quincy Adams is yielding to the fast increasing 
infirmities of age." (2) 

1260 - H Dec. 31; ed:3/2 - Miss Bremer, the celebrated Swedish authoress, 
will not visit America till next summer, when she may be confidently 
expected. (verbatim) (1) 

PHOTOGRAPHY 

1261 • H Feb. 4; adv:2/4 • Improved Daguerreotype Miniatures 

30 Story, Room No. 3 

Merchants' Exchange 

J. F. Jenkins. (1) 

1262 - H Apr. 21:2/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, H. S. Smith says: ' ' 
Since the publication of the admirable discoveries of Messrs. Daguerre 

and Talbot, the art of photography has almost arrived at perfection. ' &gt;' 



215

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1263 - 1266 

PHOTOGRAPHY (Cont'd)

The process I am now to describe, and which I shall call "Actinography," ;.' 
is easy in preparation and is very cheap. The image is obtained by the 
action of certain rays of the so'ar spectrum upon peculiar photographic 
agents spread upon paper with brusFes. To insure success the finest 
paper must be selected. The solutions may be prepared as follows, viz: 
"113 grains nitrate of silver dissolved in one ounce of water; 30 grains 
iodide of Potassium in 16 ounces of water; 30 grains Succinnic acid in 
eight ounces of water, with a small quantity of Gum Arabic and a half 
saturated solution of sulphate of iron, to which a quantity of saccharine 
matter may be added to prevent oxidization." 

These preparations are all cheap, and but small quantities are used. 
Some idea of the sensitiveness of the above processes may be obtained 
from the fact that an exposure of the "Actinographic" paper, with a piece 
of lace above it to moonlight for six minutes yielded a strong impres- 
sion; and an exposure one inch from a candle under a blue glass for one 
second made a very decided picture. The action of sulphate of iron upon 
simple nitrate of silver was first observed by George C. Davies, formerly 
of our city. 

At some future day,. I will send you a description for obtaining posi- 
tive photographs in the Camera in from 10 to 20 seconds; also, some curi- 
ous effects in the obliteration and revival of the images, and the trans- 
fer of the Daguerreotypes to paper. (30) 

1263 - H July 3; adv:4/l - Daguerreotype Plates &amp; Cases - 
Also. Chemicals for Artists of various kinds for 

sale by H. &amp; E. Gaylord. 
(verbatim) (1) 

1264 ■ H Sept. 9; adv:2/5 - The citizens of Cleveland and locality are 
respectfully informed that Daguerreotype Miniatures are taken at No. 129 
Superior st. (No. 4, second story, over L. D. Parker's Drug Store.) 

Portraits taken in all kinds of weather. Time required for sitting, 
5 to 60 seconds. Terms - single or in groups, from $2 to $6, put up in 
best style. T. Callow, C. L. Fitch. (2) 

1265 - H Nov. 12; adv:2/5 - Colored Daguerreotypes. (For one week only) 
at No. 129 Superior-st., No. 4, 2d story. 

Portraits taken in less time than has been done heretofore. T. Callow. 

(1) 

1266 - H Dec. 5; adv:2/4 - De Zavala Alexander, M.D., late of New Or- 
leans, would inform that he has opened a suite of Photographic Rooms in 
the Franklin building, where groups and individuals will be taken by 

the new wonderful Photographic Process, at $2 per sitting. Pupils taught 
the art of Photography at liberal prices. C. Stimpson, Operative Photo- 
graphist. (2) 



216

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1267 - 1271 

PLACEHOLDER

POETRY &amp; POETS 

1267 - H Jan. 3:2/4 - - Address of the carriers of the Cleveland 
HERALD. Jan. 1, 1845. 

Last night the Old Year built his 

funeral pyre 
Like the lone Phoenix, childless 

to expire - 
This morn the New Year from his 

ashes springs, 
And spreads abroad its vigorous 

untried wings! 
(ten more stanzas) (11) 

H Jan. 17; ed:2/l - See Newspapers 

1268 - H Jan. 17:2/3 - "I've Met Her" 

by H. E. G. 
I've met her many a day. 

With a soft child-like footstep hurrying by, 
And ever like the summer's sunniest ray. 
That vision flits before my raptured eye. 

(10 more stanzas) (6) 

1269 - H Jan. 25:3/2 - "Song of the Sandman" 

by H. M. T. 
"From Sabine's distant fountains, 

From Alleghany's chain. 
From Cumberland's wild mountains, 
From Carolina's plain," 

(24 more lines) (4) 

1270 - H Feb. 4:2/4 - "Home" 

(no author given) 
Home! the place where kindred meet. 
And loving hearts attuned beat; 
A sacred altar in its precincts stands, 
Where all may bring their treasures - 

(3 more stanzas) (3) 

1271 - H Feb. 6:2/3 - "Impromptu" 

by H. E. G. 
Thou wert with me to-night, and the laughing hours flew, 
By the light wings of pleasure, borne hastily past; 
And around us were falling the moonlight and dew, 
And the rose-trees deep shadows beside us were cast. 

(24 more lines) (5) 



217

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1272 - 1276 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

1272 - H Feb. 14:2/3 - Verse 

by L. A. S. 
We met - but not as others meet, 
In gay saloon, or lighted hall; 
But where the moon with silvery ray. 
Beamed lightly on the water fall. 

(12 more lines.) (2) 

1273 - H Feb. 21:2/4 - "Thoughts" 

by E. W. S. 
"There was a time, when o'er this favored land, 
Wav'd the Red Cross, and gleam 'd the battle brand; 
The opposers shout resounded far and wide. 
And would have roll'd resistless; like the tide" - 

(62 more lines. J (8) 

1274 - H Feb. 22:3/3 - "IVasbington's Birth-Day" 

by S. E. 
"With pride we hail this natal morn • 
The birth-day of our sire; 
Our hearts with final feelings burn. 
Our souls with patriotic fire. 
Our spirits take a lofty tone. 
And swell the name of Washington." 

(30 more lines) (5) 

1275 - H Feb. 24:2/3 • We have an instinctive aversion to albums and al- 
bum poetry, but it is not so strong as to prevent us from doing justice 

to good composition because it may have been found in equivocal company. 
The following is from the pen of George T. Kingsley, Esq., of this city, 
who was drowned in Sandusky bay in 1842. Mr. Kingsley 's literary ability 
was generally known and appreciated, yet we doubt whether any, except 
his most intimate companions, were aware that he was also gifted with 
the true spirit of poetry. 

"A Violet I lately met 

Be-sprinkled o'er with dew. 

To early Spring an offering. 

Enshrined with leaves it grew. 

(12 more lines) (5) 

1276 - H Feb. 26:3/3 - "The Fireman" 

by H. E. G. 
"Amid the flames he stood. 

And the white smoke formed his wreath ♦ 
And the swelling waves, of the fiery flood. 



218

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1277 - 1280 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

Came surging from beneath." . , 

(9 more stanzas) (5) 

1277 - H Feb. 26:3/3 - Poem 

by X 
"Will you tell me of her whom you love, 

That maiden I hear of afar. 
Is she timid and coy like the dove? 

Or in fashion's gay circle a star? 
Is her brow like the fair summer morn 

Ever beaming with radiant light, 
Would her cheek the rose-bud adorn 

Unwithered by sorrows cold blight?" 

(two more stanzas) (4) 

1278 - H Mar. 1:2/3 - Mr. Harris: - You recently published a piece of 
Valentine Poetry. Tnere is any quantity of it afloat. Enclosed I send 
you a specimen received by a young friend which is right to the point. 
Since the 14th his nights have been of the most restless kind • often 
exclaiming in his sleep, Arrabelia! Arrabella! It is needless to 
add that he dares not walk in the street unattended after night-fall. 

"St. Valentine's Day" 
(no author given) 
The birds are all mating this day My Dear G, 
But you are still waiting - I hope 'tis for me - 
The birds are all winging their way to the groves. 
And we should be singing each other our loves. 

(20 more lines) (3) 

1279 - H Mar. 7:3/3 - "My Childhood's Prayer" 

by "Age" 
How oft I whispered it when night 
Had veiled the earth in gloom 

When shadows grey on streamlet played, ; : 

And all was hushed as tomb - 
When Zephyrs breathed their holy vows 
Amid the branches fair 
Or night-bird chanted love-lays sweet - 
My own, my Childhood's Prayer. 

(two more stanzas) (3) 

1280 - H Mar. 15:3/3 - To - - 

by Clifton. 
I have not loved lightly, I'll think on thee yet 
And pray for thee nightly 'till life's sun is set,' 
Yes I will think of thee - 
That mild eye beaming e'en as fair 
As heaven's own radiant glore's (sic) are 



219

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1281 - 1285 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

In fancy rests: 
I hear thy voice, I see thy smile, 
Which oft my lone haunts did beguile 
*' ' And calm my breast. 

(three more stanzas.) (4) 

1281 - H Mar. 21:3/2 - Verse 

by L. A. S. 
Bereft of friend, bereft of home, 
A helpless wanderer I have roamed; 
Without a hope, save in the tomb, 
V'-'.' A lone, neglected child. 

(28 more lines.) (4) 

1282 - H Apr. 3:3/3 - "Shades" 

by L 
Whence on the changeful soul, 

Falleth the shadow, 
Like summer clouds that roll 
Over the meadow? 

(36 more lines.) (5) 

1283 - H Apr. 5:2/4 - "A Dutch Cure" 

by Brown 
Ven I lays myshelf town in my lonely ped 
room, 

Und dries for to sleep very soundt, 
De treams, oh, how into mine het dey vil come, 
Tell 1 vish I vas undher te groundt. 

(II more lines) (2) 

1284 • H Apr. 5:3/2 - "My Last Request," 

by A. G. C. 
Bury me not 'mid strangers - 1 can bear 

While living all lifes ills and woes to share. • 
I'll murmur not at this for well I know 

These are the lot of mortals here below; 
But when I shall resign this fleeting breath 

And close my eyes at the cold touch of death. 
Bury me not 'mid strangers - let my head 

Repose where erst my youthful feet did tread. 

(three more stanzas.) (3) 

1285 - H Apr. 8:3/3 • "Winter's Revisit." 

by H. M. T. 
Ha! a peep at old Winter's cold wrinkled 

face, 
And a shake from its palsying hand - 



220

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1286 - 1290 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

We thought you away for the wide pam- 
pas gray, 
Or a trip to Van Dieman's land. 

(20 more lines) (4) 

1286 - H Apr. 12:2/4 - Parody on Burn's "Bonny Doon" 

by Sandy . &lt;■ ■ ' '' 

Ye banks and braes 0' dear Maumee, 
How can ye bloom sae fair? 
How can ye chant ye little frogs. 
And I sae weary, fu' 0' care? 

(three more stanzas) (3) 

1287 - H Apr. 12:2/4 - "The Burial at Mt. Auburn of Mrs. W." 

by E 
Room dear Mother, by thy side - 
Room for another, Mother, room - 
We bring thee now thy first horn's bride - 
Not with the pomp of worldly pride. 
With lengthened train and nodding plume; 

Thy children with heart broken prayer 
With their own hands would place her there. 

(three more stanzas) (3) 

1288 - H Apr. 25:2/3 - "A Picture" 

by H. E. G. 
She sat by the wave washed shore. 

And the dark locks, unconfined. 
That the winter of sorrow was drifting o'er, 
Were afloat on the ocean wind. 

(18 more stanzas) (10) 

1289 - H May 9:3/3 - "Spring Musings." 

(no author given) 
"Frail flowers are peeping from their lowly 

bed. 
And flagrant odors lade the passing gale. 
The vernal spring comes on with gentle 

tread. 
The violet sweetly bends its modest 
head," 

'31 more lines.) (4) 

1290 - H May 22:3/3 - "I'm Saddest When I Sing." • ' 

by A. G. C. 
I'm saddest when I sing, 

For mem'ry wanders far away 



221

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1291 - 1295 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

To many hours in childhood's day 

When hope her flowers did fling. 
,..,....,-.-.. (24 more lines) (4) 

1291 - H June 6:2/4 - "Hot - Hot - All's Hot!" 

"by "E. S." 
,. I stood in Superior Street, at the hour on noon, 

Where merchants most do congregate - the Sun 
Shone with unclouded lustre, every ray 
Searching my pores as augers search a log. 
Whereof the auger-turner means to make 
A thing men term a pump, to draw up water. 

(Forty-four more lines) (6) 

1292 - H June 7:2/3 - "A Spirit Song" : 

by Delta 
This clay - cold earth &gt; ' 

Did ne'er give birth 
; -, To beings such as we: 

Since time began 
The Soul of Man 

Hath never ceased to be. 

(Thirty more lines) (4) 

1293 - H June 27:3/2 - "The Lonely House hold." 

by H. M. T. 
When night's dews are softly falling, 

And its shadows gently play. 
Merry voices, sweetly calling, 

Greet the father's homeward way. 

(32 more lines) (5) 

1294 - H July 16:2/3 - "The Empire" 

by H. E. G. 
,. There's a whisper of music abroad on the sea. 

Like a voice from some fairy land blest, but unseen, 
- And it speaks of young spirits, exulting, and free, 
/,-&gt;;&gt; As it steals to my bower, through the clusters of green. 

(11 more stanzas) (7) 

1295 - H July 18:3/3 - "Farmer's Nooning." 

by Edward H. Coggings 
The harvesting hours have come once more. 
And though hard be our labor, we've toiled before, 
And scythe and rake we'll merrily wield. 
Till shorn of its green is the harvest field. 

(six more stanzas) (3) 



222

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1296 - 1300 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

1296 - H Aug. 1:3/2 - '"Twas Evening the Zephyrs." 

by J. 0. 
'Twas evening, the zephyrs had sought their repose, 
In the blades of the cowslip and folds of the rose, 
And vesper had risen, mild, lovely and clear, •■.. .^ 

O'er the neat cot of Norah, sweet Norah my dear. 

(five more stanzas) (3) 

1297 - H Aug. 9:2/3 - "A Family Scene." 

by Mary 
It was a pleasant sight, - and good. 

To see them, standing there - 
Those brothers, three, in manhood's down. 

That sister, young and fair; - 
A subject fit for Poet's pen, .T^-^ 

Or Painter's magic power. 
Was the loved group, assembled there, 

That holy evening hour. 

(four more stanzas) (5) 

1298 - H Aug. 20:3/3 - "Quench not the Spirit" 

by Hinckley 
"Upon his dying couch, 
An aged sufferer lay. 
The evening zephyrs play'd. 
Amid his locks of grey: 
A whispered raurmer rose 
Upon eve's quiet breath. 
As fast upon his limbs there stole 
The icy chill of death. (five more stanzas) (6) 

1299 - H Aug. 23:3/3 - "The Ocean Bird" 

by H. E. G. 
The tramp of the Storm God is heard in the wood. 

And the trees stand to arms, like a host of the brave; 
In wrath he hath strode o'er the dark rolling flood. 
Till he lashed into mountains each slumbering wave. 

(15 more stanzas) (10) 

1300 - H Aug. 29:3/2 - "The Acccrdeon" 

by Mrs. C. Theresa Clark -. . s 

At evening hour I hear thy voice. 

Thou plaintive little sprite; 
Doomed in a prison to rejoice 
In ever lasting night! 



223

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1301 - 1305 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

Doomed, to obey the master-hand. 

That passing o'er the keys - 
Like some dark old magician's wand 
Gives music to the breeze. 

(five more stanzas) (6) 

1301 - H Sept. 5:3/3 - "To Roscoe" 

by H. E. G. 
'Tis morn my brother, and the dew-drops glisten 
Like heaven-strewn diamonds, on the freshened leaves; 
vr.vt-": And to the wild bird's pealing notes I listen, 

Till their whole flood of song my heart receives. 

(16 more stanzas) (7) 

1302 - H Sept. 12:3/3 - "The Exile's Request" 

by H. E. G. 
Give me the green fields, and the gleaming fountains, 

And the pale wild flowers of my native clime; - 
The breeze is sweeter from the pine-clad mountains, 
Than airs that kiss the orange, and the lime. 

(12 more stanzas) (7) 

1303 - H Sept. 13:3/3 - "To My Mother" 

(no author given) 
If there be, as there is, in this "valley of tears," 

One remembrance more sweet than another. 
It is that which runs back to our infantile years - 
The remembrance of thee - dearest mother! 

(three more stanzas) (2) 

1304 - H Sept. 22:2/3 • "To H. E. G." 

by C. H. E. 
New England! yes - I too would fain 

Once more its balmy air inhale; - 
Amid its grooves I'd range again, ■' '^' 

O'er frowning rock and smiling vale. 

(nine more stanzas) (5) 

1305 - H Sept. 27:3/3 ■ "The End Of The Road." 

by Sam Lover 
"And there, whence there's never returning. 
When we travel, as travel we must. 
May the gates be all free for our journey. 
And the tears of our friends lay the dust." (1) 



224

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1306 - 1309 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

1306 - H Oct. 10:2/4 - "C. M. Clay" 

(no author given) 
Where stands the heroes deathless name - 
High on the proudest arch of fame, 
In characters of living flame, 

We'll play thy name immortal Clay! 

(three more stanzas) : -..• V (3) 

1307 - H Oct. 14:3/3 - "Lines." 

by E. H. C. 
(Suggested upon receiving tidings of the death of an aged 
relative, with a lock of her hair perfectly white.) 

I gaze upon this little lock, 

This silvery lock of hair, 

And sigh to see it all so blanched, ^ .;:;&lt;■' ■ ,&gt; 

With time, and grief, and care; 

They shred it from the marble brow, 

When Death had placed his signet there, 

And as it lies before me now, 

I bathe with tears this lock of hair. 

(eight more stanzas) (9) 

1308 - H Oct. 17:2/4 - "Verse." . '-....- 

by C. G. C. 
Summer, art thou gone? 
0, must we so soon feel 
Chill Autumn coming on. 
With winter's icy heel? 

How brief thy stay! 

Thy beauteous zone 

But just put on 

Ere rent away! 

(seven more stanzas) (8) 

1309 - H Oct. 24:3/3 - "The Emigrants." 

by A. 
Down by yon brook one night, as many nights before, 
A mover's wagon ceased its flight to rest the load it bore, 
Four children played upon the bank in childhood's merriest 

dreams, 
And parents watched each little prank with pleasure's 

fondest beam, 
(five more stanzas) (6) 



225

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1310 - 1314 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

1310 - H Oct. 29:3/3 - "The Haunted Child" 

by H. E. G. 
Ah yes, I know their joyous tones are" ringing 
:.-' Up from their childish gambols, clear, and free; 

r't; But the glad light of life to them is bringing 

Visions and hopes it proffers not to me. 

(15 more stanzas) .- / •&gt; (8) 

1311 - H Oct. 30:2/4 - "To A Friend In Answer To Query, 

'What Is Human Life?'" 
by E. N. C. 
Thy Muse hath sung of 'Human Life' and mine re- 
sumes the strain. 
For though the contemplation's sad, and ever fraught 

with pain, 
A lessen useful 'tis and wise, which all who live 
•!■■•,'• must learn. 

However gloomy are its truths, its precepts harsh and stern. 

(eight more stanzas) (7) 

1312 - H Nov. 3:2/4 - "The Autumn Leaf" 

(no author given) 
Lone trembling one! 
Last of a summer's race, withered and sere. 
And shivering - wherefore art thou lingering here? 
Thy work is done! 

(eight more stanzas) (4) 

H Nov. 8; ed:3/l - See Newspapers 

1313 - H Nov. 8:3/1 - "Autumn" 

by H. E. G. 
There's a deep wailing in the voice of the waves, 
That late were ringing with a childish glee; 
And the white billow, to the beach it laves, 
Advances with a solemn majesty 
To bathe the scattered gems of summer's crown. 
Or bear them to the caves of silent down. 

(11 more stanzas) (9) 

1314 ■ H Nov. 19:3/2 - "Thanksgiving" ' •■ 

by H. E. G. 
"Come forth, come forth to the festal board. 
As our sires were want in the days of old; 



226

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1315 - 1318 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

The reapers are home with their harvest hoard, 
The herds have hied to their wintry fold, 
And the cullen of fruit our vaults have stored, 
With the wealth of the orchard's freight of gold. 

(10 more stanzas) (8) 

1315 - H Nov. 24:3/2 - "Verse" 

by E. H. C. 
There is a voice in Autumn's blast, 

Falls sadly on mine ear, 
And bids me list its warning tones, 

And heed the tale I hear; 
It points me to the naked bough. 

And fallen leaf so sere; 
And says to me, "The summer's o'er. 

And winter's storms are near." 

(seven more stanzas.) (8) 

1316 - H Nov. 26:3/2 - "The Lost Child" 

by Mrs. C. Theresa Clark 
(A True Incident) 
The Sun had set one Sabbath eve. 
Upon a forest wild; 
When hopelessly sat down to grieve, 
A lost and wandering child: - 
His little heart was chilled with fear, 
His limbs were wet with dew; 
The darkness showed no dwelling near. 
No human form in view. (11) 

1317 - H Nov. 28:2/4 - _ - /., 

"The soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David." • Bible. 
"Verse" - (No title) 

by H 
Oh, sacred friendship, how the lone heart sighs! 

The heart full-fraught with kindly sympathies. 
For such a friend! • Born on the murmuring gale, 
So seeks the o'erburdened cloud some fertile vale. 
In whose broad bosom it may freely pour "^ 

A heaven of sweet waters! - Richly o'er 
Souls, whom the breath of Heav'n doth thus unite, 

Affection's harvest, waves in golden light. (1) 

1318 - H Nov. 28:2/4 - "The Ruined Castle" 

by W. C. 
Sad monument of olden time, 



227

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1319 - 1322 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) .; -.; 

High raised by feudal might, 
-■-■^•.' When tyranny was in its prime 

And reason veiled in night; 
Where now the once proud rulers of your walls, 
The marshalled hosts that thronged your lofty halls? 

(four more stanzas) (4) 

1319 - H Nov. 29:2/4 - "Winter." 

by Eliza Cook. 
Winter is coming! Who cares? Who cares? 
\^'! Not the wealthy and the proud, I trow; 

"Let it come," they cry, "what matters to us 

How chilly the blast may blow!" , ... ■ 

(five more stanzas) (2) 

1320 - H Dec. 5:2/3 - "An Allegory." 

by H. 
\[\ Two beautiful dew drops, one morning in May, 

Upon two little buds of wild flower were at play, 

And they nodded and danced, and they shone in the sun. 

As the soft breeze above them went laughing on; 

(22 more lines) (4) 

1321 - H Dec. 20:3/2 - "The Discontented Sands" 

by H. M. T. 
The islet was made of golden sands 
That had gathered day by day, 
'•' As the wavelits rolled to the coral strands, 

And hasted in light away. 

(eight more verses) (5) 

1322 - H Dec. 20:2/3 - In a letter' to the editor, W. A. Adair says: 
Will you be so good as to publish the following lines on the death of 

a faithful dog? They are by Karl Benedict, a friend of mine. "Although 
there seems to be a good deal of dog-eral in this little rhyme, yet it 
strikes me that there is something rather pretty in the poetry itself." 

"Jowler." 
Lines Written On The Occasion Of His Demise, 
by Karl Benedict 
Rest lightly in the grave, Jowler, .&lt; • ;•;■,,. 

Beneath the fruit-tree's shade. 
Where oft in giddy pupling time. 
Facetious, thou hast played. 
! '; • Thou wert a faithful dog erewhile, 

.•■■:..■,,■?■ And had'st a gentle heart; 

' •-- And now - rest wait thee in thy grave, - .. _:, -._.__; .,; .. 



228

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1323 - 1327 

POETRY &amp; POETS (Cont'd) 

Or else, if else thou art! 

(six more stanzas) (10) 

1323 - H Dec. 24:3/1 - "Christmas" 

by H. E. G. 
The day was past - the silent night dews lay 
With a charmed freshness on Judea's hill; 
And the billed waters murmured, with a voice 
Of adulation, to the stars that stole 
To nestle in their bosoms. 

(43 more lines) (6) 

1324 - H Dec. 24:3/1 - "Christmas" 

Hail the blest morn! see the gfeat 

Mediator, ^ 

Down from the regions of glory descent! 
Shepherds go worship the babe in the manger. 
Lo! for his guard the bright angels attend. (1) 

1325 - H Dec. 31:3/2 • "The Old Year" 

by G. T. S. 
Know ye the Sovereign of Time's vast domains, 
Tlie Olden Year, doth abdicate his throne 
This night. His num'rous (sic) heralds have gone forth, 
To summon all his subjects to appear 
Within the palace walls before he yields 
The power to his successor. 

(68 more lines) (9) 

POISONING 

1326 - H Feb. 19; ed:3/l - Two little children of Deacon Hamlin were 
poisoned yesterday by eating the seeds of Datura Stramonium or James- 
town (sic) Weed. 

The children are believed out of danger. 

"The Stramonium grows plentifully in this section, and cl^ildren 
should early be taught its poisonous qualities." (2) 

POLICE. See City Government; Crime &amp; Criminals 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS 

Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga 

1327 • H Feb. 26; adv:3/3 - Proclamation. Whereas, the Charter of the 
Citv of Cleveland makes it the duty of the Mayor to issue his proclama- 
tion to the electors of said City, setting forth the time and places of 



229

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1328 - 1332 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

such election. 

Therefore, I, Samuel Starkweather, Mayor of the City of Cleveland, do 
hereby notify and require the qualified voters of the city to assemble on 
the first Monday of March next (3rd day) at the following places, viz. - 
in the 1st Ward - At the Court House; 2nd Ward - At Rockwell-st. School 
House; 3rd Ward - At the Academy on St. Clair-st. Then and there to 
elect one Mayor, three Aldermen, One Mirshal, and one Treasurer of said 
City, and three Councilmen from each ward thereof. (2) 

1328 - H Feb. 28:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "One of 'em" says: 
Please call the attention of the electors of our city to the following very 
worthy "Bachelor" ticket, and oblige - 

Mayor, John G. McCurd} ; aldermen, first ward, John G. Ransom; second 
ward, William Case, Edward P. Welmore; councilmen, first ward, Silas S. 
Stone, John H. Phillips, William Sholl; second ward, Albert G. Lawrence, 
S. S. Coe, S. W. Crittenden; third ward, John Huntington, Samuel Mather, 
Herman D. Canfield; treasurer, James R, Huganin; Marshal, Eber N. Parks: 

The above mentioned candidates, the Mayor excepted, have resolved that 
if any one of them shall be "victimized" during the year, he is to be re- 
leased from his official duties. (3) 

1329 - H Feb. 28:3/1 - Mr. Harris: - I understand I was nominated on Thurs- 
day evening as a candidate for the office of Councilman in the second ward. 

- Please withdraw ray name from the ticktt, as I decline being a candidate 
for any office. N. E. Crittenden. (verbatim) (1) 

1330 ■ H Feb. 28:3/1 ■ The Whig electors met at Apollo hall yesterday. 
The following ticket for the coming charter election was agreed on: 

Mayor, Melancton Barnett; aldermen, first ward, L. M. Hubby; second 
ward, Charles Hicknx; third ward, Paris M. Phipps; councilmen, first ward, 
E. S. Bemis, Charles Bradburn, J. F. Chamberlain; second ward, N. E. 
Crittenden, James Gardner, E. G. Williams; third ward, Zenas Cobb, 
Philo Scoville, Charles L. Camp; treasurer. Miller M. Spangler; marshal, 
Christopher Mullen. (5) 

1331 - H Feb. 28:3/1 - The following is a list of candidates on the 
"Liberty" ticket in the coming charter election: 

Mayor, Thomas Richmond; aldermen, first ward, Ethan Rogers; second ward, 
William Adair, R. H. Blackmer; councilmen, first ward, Edward Wall, H. P. 
Hopkins, William Stevenson; second ward, M. S. Cotterell, Henry Blair, 
William Hart; third ward, H. G. Townsend, E. A. Southworth, E. W. Andrews; 
marshal, Milo H. Hickox; treasurer, Henry Sexton. (3) 

1332 - H Mar. 1; ed;3/l - The annual city election takes place on Monday 
and it beliooves every Whig elector to deposit his vote in favor of the 
ticket nomimted on Friday evening. 

"Let no Whig voter fail to deposit his ballot, for although our old 
political opponents have not as yet nominated a ticket, they will do so 
previous to Monday, and then leave no stone unturned to elect it." (3) 



230

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1333 - 1339 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

1333 • H Mar. 1:3/1 - The Ticket. - The name of Jesse P. Bishop has been 
substituted for Councilman in 2d Ward, in place of N. E. Crittenden, 
declined. tverbatim) (1) 

1334 - H Mar. 4; ed:3/l - "The Charter Election on the 3d inst., was not 
contested with much spirit, and as usual, when no great political ex- 
citement exists, the Locos made a pretty clean sweep." 

The following officers were chosen: Mayor - Samuel Starkweather; 
aldermen - first ward, C. W. Heard; second ward, George Witherell; third 
ward, L. 0. Matthews; councilraen - first ward, *F. W. IJingham, *Peter 
Call, Samuel Ives; second ward, E. G. Williams James Gardner, David L. 
Wood; third ward, Arthur Hughes, J. A. Wheeler, Orville Gurley; marshal, 
Stoughten Bliss; treasurer, James E. James. 

Those names bearing the star(*) are Whigs. (3) 

1335 - H Apr. 4:2/1 • At a Public Meeting of the Whigs of East Cleveland, 
called at the house of Rufus Dunham, for the purpose of nominating a part 
of the officers for the Township of Cleveland, Irad Kelley was called to 
the Chair, and P. Dunn appointed Secretary. The following persons were 
unanimously nominated: - B. Crawford, M. Spangler, and Horatio Rannly, 
Trustees; Ira Bristol, Constable, and Charles H. Dunham, Supervisor for 
Road District No. 2. I. Kelley, Ch'm. P. D. Dunn, Sec'y. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1336 - H Apr. 4:2/2 - At a meeting of the voters of East Cleveland, held 
at C. Coatley's Inn on the 1st day of April, 1845, the meeting was or- 
ganized by calling Benj. T. Blackwe'l to the Chair, and appointing Isaac 
Sherman, Secretary. The following persons were chosen as candidates to 
be supported at the ensuing Election, to wit: For Township Trustee, 
Benjamin C. Watters; for Overseer of the Poor, Ira Sawtell; for Constable, 
George Watkins; for Supervisor, in District No. 1, B. S. Decker; in Dis- 
trict No. 2, Charles Dunham. 

On motion, it was voted that the proceedings of this meeting should 
be published in the HERALD and PLAIN DEALER. Benj. Blackwell, Ch'n. 
Isaac Sherman, Sec'y. (verbatim) (2) 

1337 - H Apr. 5:3/1 - Mr. Harris - Please say to the Electors of Cleve- 
land Township that W. T. Goodwin, is a candidate for the office of Trea- 
surer at the ensuing election and oblige - Many. (verbatim) (1) 

1338 - H Apr. 5:3/1 - A Meeting: Will be held this evening at Liberty 
Hall, Hancock Block, to nominate officers for the township election on 
Monday next. (verbatim) (1) 

1339 - H Apr. 8:3/1 - Township Election. • The following persons were 
elected officers of Cleveland township, April 7th. The vote was not 
large, nor party lines strictly drawn. Two of the Trustees, the Clerk 
and one Constable are Whigs. Trustees, M. M. Spangler, Horatio Ranny, 
Benj. C. Watters; Assessor - L. White; Clerk - Loren Prentiss; Treasurer - 



231

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1340 - 1345 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

ff. T. Goodwin; Constables - Seth A. Abbey, Thomas McKinstry, Stoughton 
Bliss, Erastus Smith. (verbatim) (2) 

1340 - H June 25:2/4 - In a letter to the editor, "Many Voters" says: 
Please announce the name of Hon. John Stoddard as a suitable candidate 

for the office of councilman for the second ward, and oblige. (1) 

1341 • II July 1; adv:2/7 - Proclamation. Whereas, there is a vacancy in 
the City Council of an Alderman for the 3d ward and of one member of the 
Council for the 3d ward, and also of one member of the Council for the 

2d ward, occasioner! by the removal therefrom of L. 0. Mathews, J. Gardner 
and J. A. Wheeler. 

Therefore, in discharge of the duty enjoined on me by the charter of 
the city council, I, Samuel Starkweather, Mayor of said city, do hereby 
notify and require, the electors of said city, to assemble at the usual 
places of holding elections in the several wards, on Wednesday, the 2d 
day of July next, between the hours of 10 o'clock A.M. And 5 o'clock, 
P.M., of said day, then and there to proceed to elect one Alderman, and 
one Councilman for the 3d ward, and one Councilman for the 2d ward, to 
fill the vacancies aforesaid. 

In Testimony Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand. (L. S.) and affixed 
the seal of the city, this 16th day of June, 1845. Sam'l Starkweather, 
Mayor. (verbatim) (2) 

1342 - H July 3:3/1 - The political quietude of our Lake city was yes- 
terday disturbed by a severely contested scramble for offices, in our 
city legislature. One alderman and two councilmen were elected, it being 
the first popular demonstration in these parts since the policy of Colonel 
Polk has been shadowed forth. Judge Stoddard was elected alderman, and 
Deacon Whittaker, councilman, both being Whigs. The other council seat 
is claimed by the Locofocos, but the Whigs will undoubtedly question his 
election. 

The number of votes polled was 213 - usual number about 1,300. (5) 

1343 - H July 31; ed:3/l - Liberty party nominations. - The following 
nominations were made by the convention held in this city July 30th: 
representative, John Watson; treasurer, J. F. Hanks; commissioner, Henry 
Church; pros, att'y, Edward Wade; coroner, E. W. Cowles. (verbatim) (1) 

1344 - H Aug. 7:2/4 - Mr. Harris: - Will you announce the name of Geo. A. 
Benedict, Esq., as a candidate before the Whig county convention for the 
office of prosecuting attorney. A Whig. (verbatim) (1) 

1345 - H Aug. 12:2/4 - Mr. Harris: - Please to announce Stephen I. Noble, 
Esq., as a suitable candidate for the office of prosecuting attorney of 
Cuyahoga county. Subject to the decision of the county Whig convention 

and oblige Many Whigs. (verbatim) (1) 



232

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1346 - 1353 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

1346 - H Aug. 18:2/4 - We are requested to announce the name of Wm. 
Strong, Esq., as candidate for the office of prosecuting attorney, sub- 
ject to the decision of the Whig county convention. (verbatim) (1) 

1347 - H Aug. 19:2/4 - Mr. Harris. - Please insert the name of Albert 
G. Lawrence Esq., for the office of Prosecuting attorney of Cuyahoga 
county, subject to the decision of the Whig county convention, and 

oblige A Whig. (verbatim) (1) 

1348 - H Aug. 20:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, A. G. Lawrence says: 
A Whig has had the kindness to notice me as a candidate for nomination 
for the office of prosecuting attorney of Cuyahoga County. "I wish now 
to avail myself of your paper to express to my 'Whig' friend, my thanks 
for his kindness and confidence, and to state a few reasons for declin- 
ing to be considered a candidate." The other candidates for the nomi- 
nation are more fitting in, that they have resided here longer than I. 
Also, I am pledged beforehand to support one of the aspirants and do all 

I can to secure to his nomination and election. (4) 

1349 - H Aug. 21:3/2 - Mr. Harris. - Please insert the name of Bushnell 
White, as a candidate for prosecuting attorney, subject to a nominating 
convention and oblige Many Whigs. (verbatim) (1) 

1350 - H Aug. 23:2/4 - Mr. Harris. - Please announce the name of Reuben 
M. Hannaford, of Solon, as a candidate for county commissioner and 

oblige Many Whigs. (verbatim) (1) 

1351 - II Aug. 26:2/4 - Mr. Harris. • Please to announce Col. Ezra Eddy, 
of Mayfield, as a suitable candidate for county commissioner, subject 

to the decision of a Whig county convention, and oblige Many Whigs, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1352 - H Aug. 26:3/1 - The Whig electors of the several townships of the 
county are requested to meet at their several election places on Sept. 

6 at 3 p.m. to choose six delegates from each township to meet in county 
convention at the court house in Cleveland on Sept. 13 at 10 a.m. to 
nominate one representative to the state legislature, a county treasurer, 
a prosecuting attorney, a county commissioner, a county coroner and a 
surveyor, these to be voted on in October. 

By order of the Cuyahoga county Whig central committee: S. William- 
son, A. Sherwin, T. P. May, T. C. Floyd, and Andrew White. (3) 

1353 - H Aug. 28:2/4 - Mr. Harris. - Please to announce Noah Graves of 
Chagrin Falls, as a suitable candidate for re-election to the office of 
county commissioner, subject to decision of the Whig convention, and 
oblige Many Voters. (verbatim) (1) 



233

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1354 - 1360 ' ■ - . . 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

1354 ■ H Sept. 5; ed:3/l - Whigs of Cleveland! Bear in mind that at 
3 o'clock, to-morrow afternoon, a meeting will be held at the court 
h&lt;)use to aponint delegates to the Whig county convention. Begin the 
caaipaign right by attending the primary meeting and appointing sound 

and judicious delegates. (verbatim) (1) 

1355 - H Sept. 8:2/4 - Mr. Harris: - Please announce Horace Foote, Esq., 
as a suitable candidate for prosecuting attorney, subject to the deci- 
sion of the County Whig Convention, and oblige many Tax Payers, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1356 - H Sept. 8:3/1 - At a meetina of the Whig electors of Cleveland 
City and Township, held at the court house on Saturday, Sept. 6th, 1845, 
the following gentlemen were unanimously chosen delegates to the Whig 
county convention to be holden on Saturday the 13th inst. for nominating 
candidates to be supported at the ensuing election: H. Ranney, M. 
Kelley, L. Handerson, F. J. Prentiss, B. Stedman, C. Stetson. D. J. 
Garrett, Chairman. S. W. Treat, Sec'y. (verbatim) (2) 

1357 - H Sept. 9:2/1 - The Chagrin Falls township convention, in session 
on Sept. 6, appointed the following delegates to the Cuyahoga county 
Whig convention, to be held in Cleveland, Sept. 13: Samuel Pool, James 
A. Brown, Noah Graves, Harvey White, C. T. Blakeslee, and Obadiah Bliss, 
Esq. Harvey White presided at the Chagrin Falls convention. A resolu- 
tion was adopted endorsing Whig principles; condemning slavery as averse 

to American ideals; and refusing support to any candidate who will not 

do his utmost to make human bondage illegal. (5) 

1358 - H Sept. 9; ed:3/l - School directors' election. - All persons in- 
terested in good schools, and who is not, should bear in mind that the 
third Friday in September, the 19th inst., is the day for the election 
of school directors in the several districts in the county, and through- 
out the state, and for transacting other necessary business connected 
with public schools. Care and judgment should be exercised in the se- 
lection of directors, for on these officers, more than on any others em- 
braced in the free school system, depend the prosperity and usefulness 

of the schools. (verbatim) (2) 

1359 - H Sept. 10:2/4 - Election Notice. - The trustees of Cleveland 
township will meet at the co'irl house, and the judges of election of 
the 2d and 3d wards of the city, will also meet at the usual place of 
election in those wards, on the 16th of September, at 9 o'clock A.M. to 
revise the Assessor's list of voters. H. Ranney, M. M. Spangler, B. C. 
Waters, - Township Trustees. (verbatim) (1) 

1360 - H Sept. 10; ed:3/l - Prepare for election. - Voters must look to 
it and see that their names are duly registered, or they may regret it 
election day. See notice of township trustees. (verbatim) (1) 



234

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1361 - 1370 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga (Cont'd) 

1361 - H Sept. 12:3/3 - We are requested to publish the name of M. 
Barnett, as a candidate for treasurer, subject to the decision of the 
convention. (verbatim) (1) 

1362 - H Sept. 20; ed:3/l - The Wayne county DEMOCRAT says: The Whig 
ticket of Cuyahoga county, as set up in the Cleveland HERALD, resembles 
a coffin. Is not this the coffin in which federalism in that county is 
destined soon to be encased, friend Harris? 

"Even so; federalism and locofocoism being identical." (verbatim) (1) 

1363 - H Oct. 2; adv:2/4 - Notice - The trustees of Cleveland township 
will meet at the Zone School house at East Cleveland, on the 13th inst., 
at 9 o'clock, A.M., to correct the list of voters, and register such names 
as have been omitted - M. M. Spangler, H. Ranner, B. C. Waters. 
Trustees. (1) 

1364 - H Oct. 3:3/2 - For the HERALD. Messrs. Bingham, Wade and White. 
You being candidate for prosecuting attorney of your respective parties, 
will you, if elected to that office, rigidly enforce the laws against 
unlicensed rumsellers, as the duties of that office require. 

J. H. Guptil. (verbatim) (1) 

1365 - H Oct. 7:3/1 - The Whigs of Euclid, will meet at the Methodist 
Church, in East Euclid, on Friday evening next at 6 o'clock, P.M. Good 
Speakers are engaged to address the meeting. (verbatim) (1) 

1366 - H Oct. 16:2/1 - Henry S. Whitman, Esq., Whig, was elected justice 
of the peace of Brooklyn township on Tuesday last by a majority of 70. 
(verbatim) (1) 

Municipal 

1367 - H Mar. 3; ed:3/l - The Whigs of Detroit have nominated David 
Smart, Esq., for Mayor. We hope he stands a smart chance of being 
elected, as he is worthy of the honor. (verbatim) (1) 

1368 - H Apr. 12; ed:3/l - "The Whigs of Cincinnati re-elected their 
excellent Mayor Spencer, their energetic Marshal Saffin, and secured a 
handsome majority in the City Council." (2) 

1369 - H Apr. 12; ed:3/l - New York city election. "As we expected, the 
Locos have swept the City, and Nativeism is routed in its stronghold." 

Havemeyer (Democrat) was elected mayor by a plurality of 5,993 over 
his closest competitor. (6) 

Ohio 

1370 - H Aug. 5; ed:3/I - Whigs of the Reserve! - It is time to begin 
to think about the October election, and we would urge upon your 



235 

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1371 - 1373 ..... ..^ .^., 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

attention the appeal of the STATE JOURNAL, which we copy today. Union, 
action, and vigilance, will again secure our entire Whig Reserve dele- 
gation. Let us do our part, and we have full confidence that the Whigs 
of the other portions of the State will not prove laggard in the coming 
contest. (verbatim) (1) 

1371 - II Aug. 14; ecl:2/l • We notice that in roost parts of the state 
both political parties are organizing for the October contest, and nom- 
inations in many counties have already been made. The coming election 
is an important one: true it only concerns our own state, but Ohio is 
Whig, and it will be a deep disgrace to us if we allow a false sense of 
security to betray us into indifference, and defeat, and that defeat 
place the law-m;iking power in the hands of a reckess party, who dare to 
commit the most flagrant outrages upon our institutions under the abused 
name of Democracy. 

"The deformities of patent Democracy have been exposed in Ohio, and 
its heartlessness and dishonesty rebuked, but it must be kept before the 
people in its naked hideousness, and every Whig be a committee of vigi- 
lance to see that the monster does not steal even a rag to hide its true 
character - Locofocoism wearing the pure vesture of True Democracy!" (6) 

1372 - H Aug. 15; ed:2/1 - As the fall election approaches, it is well 
to look over the battlefield and see what is to be done, and what there 
is to fight for. 

"What have the Whigs to gain or lose at the coming election? We 
answer, much. At this time, however, we shall only touch upon one mea- . 
sure; that, is emphatically a Whig measure, and perhaps none of more 
serious importance demands the attention of the people; we mean the cur- 
rency." It is fresh in the memory of many how the self-styled democrat- 
ic party lulled the suspicions of the people by the cry of bank reform, 
a few years ago, and how, when in power, they forgot reform and slaugh- 
tered good banks and bad banks, right and left. 

At this crisis the W.jigs came in as the true friends of reform, and 
the People put them in power. "But nine short months and mark the 
change: good, safe Bank notes are circulating where rags before held 
sway, true it is, but a small amount as yet have been issued, but it re- 
quires time to restore our circulation to a perfectly heathful state." 

The Whigs are the best soldiers in the world for storming the enemy's 
citadel, but onct victory is won, they are content to relax, and thus 
allow an insidiovis foe to steal back his lost ground. Apathy must be 
guardeJ against if currency reform is to be maintained. (13) 

H Aug. 23; ed:2/l,2 - See Banks &amp; Banking 

1373 - H Aug. 26; ed:2/l - The Whig central committee has issued a call 
for a county Whig convention for the purpose of making nominations for 
the October elections. It is of utmost importance that the primary 
township meetings prior to this county convention be well attended and, ' 



236

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1374 - 1381 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

sagacious men appointed. "We hope our Whig friends will bear the matter 

in mind, and that good and acceptable nominations may be made." (3) 

1374 - H Aug. 27; ed:3/l - Alfred Phelps, Esq., of Chardon, is nominated 
in the Geauga WHIG, as a candidate for the senate in this district. Mr. 
P. is a sound, judicious man, and would make a true and faithful repre- 
sentative of the people. (verbatim) (1) 

1375 • H Sept. 1:3/3 - Mr. Harris: Please nominate Charles Bradburn as 
a candidate for representative, subject to the action of the Whig con- 
vention, and oblige Many Voters. (verbatim) (1) 

1376 - H Sept. 1:3/3 - We are requested to announce the name of Calvin 
Giddings of Rockport, as a candidate for representative, subject to the 
decision of the Whig county convention. (verbatim) (1) 

1377 - H Sept. 1:3/3 - Mr. Harris Sir: Please insert the name of Frank 
T. Backus as a suitable person to represent this county in the next legis- 
lature, subject to the decision of a Whig co. convention, and oblige A 
Whig. (verbatim) (1) 

1378 - H Sept. 2:2/4 - Please announce the name of Jonathan Fisher as a 
candidate for representative, subject to the decision of the county con- 
vention. A Whig. (verbatim) (1) 

1379 - H Sept. 2:2/4 - Mr. Harris. - Please announce the name of David 
Harvey, as a suitable person to represent this county in the next legis- 
lature, subject to the decision of a Whig county convention, and oblige 

the Whigs of Cuyahoga. (verbatim) (1) 

1380 - H Sept. 3:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Tax Payers" say: Are 
the people of Cuyahoga sufficiently awake to the interests that may be 
gained for the county during the next session of the legislature? A re- 
vision of our incomplete statute laws, and a wholesome reform in crimi- 
nal laws will come up for consideration, all, of course, affecting the 
purses of our taxpayers, directly or indirectly. As the laws now stand, 
even a Philadelphia lawyer could not decipher them. 

"Reform, take my word for it, is loudly called for in the premises, 
and the law giver who would understandingly take hold of this feature of 
legislation would greatly benefit the tax payers of the State." 

Such a man is Frank T. Backus. The general satisfaction he has given 
for industry, ability, and zeal in the office he honors (Prosecuting At- 
torney), is evidence to the people that he would make an efficient Rep- 
resentative. (6) 

1381 - H Sept. 3:2/4 - Mr. Harris. - Please announce the name of Wells 
Porter, Esq., of Dover, as a suitable candidate for representative, sub- 
ject to the action of the Whig county convention, and oblige Many Voters, 
(verbatim) (1) 



237

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1382 - 1388 ...:_ .-c • 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS • Ohio (Cont'd) 

1382 - H Sept. 4:2/4 - Mr. Harris: - Please announce the name of Daniel 
Warren, of Warrensville, as a suitable candidate for representative, sub- 
ject to the county convention. Cleveland. (verbatim) (1) 

1383 - JI Sept. 5:2/4 • Mr. Harris: - Having seen my name in your paper 
as a candidate for representative, allow me to say that it is not my in- 
tention to be a candidate for that office at the ensuing election. 

David Harvey. (verbatim) (1) 

1384 - H Sept. 8:2/4 - Mr. Harris: ■ Please to announce the name of C. 
T. Blnkeslee of Chagrin Falls, as a candidate for our representative, 
subject to the Whiti County Convention, and thereby oblige The People, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1385 - H Sept. 12; ed:3/l - The Whigs of Cuyahoga, through their dele- 
gates, mret here tomnrrow to put in nomination candidates for the several 
state and county officers to be voted on the second Tuesday of October. 

"The next session of the Legislature is liiiely to be an important one, 
and as we have but one Reprt sentat ive this year from Cuyahoga, it is 
important- that we should have the right kind of a man. to represent the 
interests of this city and county at Columbus. There are many good men 
to choose from. 

"For Treasurer, we presume that our old friend and fellow citizen, 
Melancton Barnett, Esq., will be re-nominated, and re-elected, as he is 
a capable, faithful, and honest officer." (4) 

1386 - H Sept. 13:3/1 - The Whig county convention met in this city yes- 
terday and announced the following ticket after a harmonious meeting in 
the court house, at which Hon. Moses Kelley presided: Rep'-esentative, 
David Harvey; treasurer, Melancton Barnett; prosecuting attorney, Bush- 
neir White; commissioner, Ezra Eddy; coroner, C. L. Camp; surveyor, 

Ahaz Merchant. (3) 

1387 - H Sept. 15:2/5 - According to the proclamation of Huron Beebe, 
sheriff of Cuyahoga county, the electors of this county will vote Tues- 
day, Oct. 14, to fill the following offices: One senator and one repre- 
sentative for the state legislature; a county treasurer; a prosecuting 
attorney; a county surveyor; a coroner; and one county commissioner. (3) 

1388 • H Sept. 15:3/1 - Seabury Ford is the Whig nominee for state sena- 
tor from Cuyahoga county, his nomination having been announced after the ,.&gt;".' 
release of the general county ticket. Ford was nominated by the Geauga - v 
county Whig convention, and his selection concurred in the Cuyahoga con- 
vention. (2) 

H Sept. 16; ed:2/l - See Taxation 



238

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1389 - 1393 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

1389 - H Sept. 16:2/2 - The Cuyahoga county Whig convention met at the 
court house on Sept. 13. Moses Kelley was chosen chairman; L. L. Adams 
and Oliver Emerson, vice-presidents; and F. F. Cogswell, and C. T. 
Blakeslee, Secretaries. 

The first business on hand before the 108 delegates was the endorse- 
ment of the nomination of Seabury Ford for state senator by the Geauga 
county convention. Ford was promised Cuyahoga's Whig votes. 

D. Harvey captured the nomination for representative, polling 57 ,; 

of the 108 votes cast. Bushnell White garnered 58 votes and was de- 
clared the Whig nominee for prosecuting attorney. Melancton Barnett was 
nominated for treasurer by acclamation. Ezra Eddy took the nomination for 
commissioner, polling 65 votes. The coroner nomination went to C. L. 
Camp, who polled 63 votes. Ahaz Merchant was nominated for surveyor, 
with 62 votes. 

The following new Whig central committee was nominated: George A. 
Benedict, Thomas P. May, A. Sherwin, H. S. Whitman, H. Ranney, and Wm. 
A. Otis. (17) 

1390 - H Sept. 16; ed:3/l - The Whig ticket presented to Cuyahoga's 
voters is not only an exceptional one, but a decidedly good one. All 
the candidates are capable, faithful, and honest, and all have been tried 
and not found wanting. 

"A full vote in Cuyahoga is ever a Whig triumph. Remember this, and 
neglect no duty until the setting sun election day has again made that 
victory certain." (2) 

1391 - H Sept. 19; ed:3/l - The Hards out Hardened. - The Cincinnati 
Hards are mere sandstone when compared with the granites of Henry county. 
Here is a specimen from their convention resolutions: 

Resolved, That our opposition to bank domination, under all its phases, 
and pretended "reforms," "limitations" and "safe-guards," shall never 
cease until every utterer of bills of credit for circulation as money, is 
placed under the same legal disabilities with the utterer of counterfeit 
coin, or any other public robber. 

We notice that in the party nominations so far the Hards have it. In 
Hamilton, Stark and Wayne the Hards have triumphed, and in the North 
West they have nominated Mr. Knapo, former editor of the Kalida VENTURE, 
for the House. The sight of a bank note affects him as water does a 
mad dog. (verbatim) (2) 

1392 - H Sept. 20:3/1 - The Locofoco county convention held the 20tb inst., 
nominated D. B. Dunham, for representative; F. W. Bingham, for prose- 
cuting attorney; Stoughton Bliss, for coroner; J. B. Bartlett, for trea* - ■ 
surer, and - Gilbert, for Commissioner. 

The proceedings were rich and racy, and will be duly recorded on Mon- 
day, (verbatim) (1) 

1393 - H Sept. 24; ed:3/l - The Whigs of Summit county have nominated 
Hiram Bowen, of Akron, for representative, and Henry G. Weaver for 



239

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1394 - 1397 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

commissioner. 

The Whig candidates for representatives in Summit and Portage counties 
are excellent men. They will confer honor on the good Reserve counties 
they will represent, and the interests of the people will be well cared 
for in the hands of such Representatives as Mcintosh, Shreve, and Bowen. 
(verbatim) (2) 

1394 - H Sept. 24; ed:3/l - Mr. Harvey has won an enviable reputation 
as a legislator, not only with his immediate constituents, but with his 
fellow members and the people at the capital. In noticing his re-nomina- 
tion by the Whigs of Cuyahoga, the STATE JOURNAL remarks - "Mr. Harvey 
has served two years in the legislature, and has acquired an amount of 
experience that will enable him to labor efficiently. He will be warmly 
welcomed back," (verbatim) (1) 

1395 - H Sept. 30:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "One of the Friends 
of Equal Rights" says: No doubt if I were to ask you what you desire 

in regard to the colored population of Ohio, you would immediately answer 
that they should be given their rights and that the black laws of the 
state should be repealed. "In this I cordially agree with you; but, 
dear friends, have you duly considered that all hopes of accomplishing 
an object so desirable must depend on sustaining the Whig party?" It is 
the only party with the power and intent to repeal these laws, despite 
the assertions of the so-called "Liberty P^rty" to the contrary. 

Now I submit it to your common sense, brethren, on which party can we 
hang our hopes of overcoming this opposition, and of meliorating the con- 
dition of the colored popul ition of our State? Ti.e Whig party, who have 
alrealy 40 members in our Legislature and who are warmly in favor of such 
a measure? or the self styled "Liberty Pirty," who have not yet elected 
a single member, and who have no present prospect of electing one? And 
mother quest irn, are we not in great danger of being pulled and duped 
by designing dcmag' gui s, whose real object is not to repeal the Black 
Laws of Ohio, or abolish slavery in utl.er States, but to keep these things 
to harp upon, for the purpose of bail ing up a party for their own aggran- 
disement, anJ as a convenient hjbby on which to ride into notice and 
power? (13) 

1396 - H Oct. 6; ed:2/2 - The OHIO STATESMAN, which is anxious to bring 
out a full Loco vote, warns that under the new registry law voters can 
register only on Oct. 13, the day before election, and for a period of 
one hour on Oct. 14, election day. 

"The STATESMAN is determined no Locofoco vote shall be lost from a 
failure to have the registry completed. Let Whigs profit by the counsel 
given." (4) 

1397 - H Oct. 7:2/1-3 - George A. Benedict, chairman of the Whig central 
committee of Cuyahoga, warns local Whigs to guard against the apathy so 
evident in the party ranks whenever an ordinary election comes up. Ohio 



240

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1398 - 1399 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

is largely a Whig state, says Benedict, but often, with the battle won 
the Whigs rest on their oars and give the enemy Locos an opportunity to 
slip in. The coming election, because it is an ordinary state election, 
is likely to be regarded as unimportant by good Whigs; it is just such 
casual uninterestedness that must be avoided. 

It is important that the state go Whig this year, important because 
the banking system of Ohio is on the block. If the Locos win, their 
self-styled "reform" will replace the balanced Whig banking measures 
of to-day, and our state finances will flounder. Ohio will be left 
stripped of her own money and flooded by the worthless trash of neigh- 
boring corporations irresponsible to our laws, and beyond the control 
of our courts. 

The Whig tax law, too, is on the stand, being fired at by Loco cam- 
paigns. This measure decreases the farmer's and the mechanic's tax and 
increases that of the capitalist. It is the nearest approach yet to the 
perfect tax - one levied on property in proportion to its value. Yet 
the Locos cry for its repeal. 

The cursed Ohio black laws must be repealed - the colored person must 
be given equal recognition in the courts and in society. For all these 
things - the retention of worthy measures and the banishment of odious 
ones - there is only one party, the Whigs. 

Benedict points to the resolutions passed by Loco county conventions 
in the state thus far and points out their enmity to our good, solid 
bank system. He points then to the policies of the Whigs and holds them 
up for comparison. "We hope, Whigs of Cuyahoga County," he urges "that 
the second Tuesday of October will see every man at the ballot box." (51) 

1398 ■ H Oct. 13; ed:2/l - Though the canvass has been devoid of the usu- 
al excitement attending a state election, we can assure our Whig friends 
in the city that it is of the first importance that every vote be polled. 
Let no one fail to vote, for the result in Cuyahoga may depend on a 
single vote! The Locofocos will as usual be out in full strength. They 
have sent split tickets out and have united with their abolition allies 

so far as to put in circulation abolition tickets with the name of F. 
W. Bingham substituted for the abolition candidate for prosecuting at- 
torney. Be on your guard to avoid such devices and trickery against 
Whig candidates. "It is the more important then that every Whig in the 
City does his duty, for unless he does there is great danger that the 
flag of Locofocoism waves in triumph in Old Cuyahoga to-morrow." (4) 

1399 - H Oct. 13; ed:2/l - Whigs, register your names! Whigs of the 
City! If any of you have been negligent enough to omit looking to the 
registry of your names until this time, an opportunity offers to-morrow 
morning, one hour before the polls open. - See that your name is en- 
rolled, and ask all your Whig neighbors to see that their names are on 
the list. The registry to-morrow morning can be made at the place of 
holding election in the ward in which the elector resides. Pass the 

word round, and make sure work. (verbatim) (2) 



241

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1400 - 1404 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

1400 - H Oct. 13:2/2 - In a letter to the editor. L. A. S. says: To- 
morrow is election day, a day of freedom's birth and glory, wherein, 
with the right of citizenship, all are of equal right and privilege. 
Voters! show fiat you are worthy heirs of liberty, and help to put down 
the iniquity staf'ding in the high places. Wield among freemen the mighty 
arm of moral influence. How can we wield the all-powerful influence of 
moral contest in freedom's land but by ballots? "Then awake, one and 

all, for the strife in which victory is lost or won." (7) 

1401 - H Oct. 16; ed:2/l - Northern Ohio is sound in its support of Whig 
principles, and the indications are that not a "hard-destructive" stripe 
will be found from the Reserve in the next legislature. All the counties 
considered doubtful, except Trumbull, have been reported, and in all the 
Whigs have succeeded. Whig representatives have been elected in the 
Hu''on and Erie distric's, in Lorain, Medina, Cuyahoga, Portage, Geauga, 
and Lake counties, and in Stark county and the Lucas district. 

"If the balance of the State has done anything like as well, the Whig 
majority in both branches of the Legislature will at least be large 
enough for all practical purposes." (3) 

1402 - H Oct. 20: ed:2/l - It is now certain that the Whigs will have a 
decided majority in the next Ohio legislature - say, from six to eight 
in the senate, and from ten to 16 in the house. Not a single Locofoco 
has been elected to either branch from the Western Reserve, and other 
portions of the state have done nearly as well. 

"The people of Ohio have emphatically decided in favor of a home cur- 
rency and Whig measures generally, and we rejoice that their verdict will 
give some stability to legislation and laws.... Although the aggregate 
vote in the State is much smaller than last year, the Whig majority on 
the poular vote will be much increased - a sufficient indication that 
Locofocoism, in all its progressive phases, is more unpopular with the 
Buckeyes than ever." (11) 

1403 - H Oct. 24; ed:2/2 - The STATE JOURNAL says: The Reserve has 
passed through another ordeal and again proved herself true to her own 
interests, her own character, her own gocd name. Worthy is she to lead 
the van in the Whig legion of Ohio. The Reserve is Whig on its borders, 
in its centre, and all over. Not a dark spot is there in her limits. 

"The gallant Whigs of the Reserve 'touch their beavers' in acknowledg- 
ment of your fhittering compliments, friend JOURNAL, and while the Reserve 
Corps 'stand up to the rack, fodder or no fodder,' election-day, they are 
not insensible to the fact that in legislation as well as in other matters, 
'handsome is that handsome does, ' and that no sectional feeling should 
govern in the enactment of laws for the general weal." (6) 

1404 - H Oct. 25; ed:3/l - The Wooster DEMOCRAT suggests Col. James 
Collier of Steubenville as the next Whig candidate for governor of Ohio. 

"While we fully agree with our respected contemporary in its 



242

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1405 - 1411 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

commendation of Col. Collier, we think it hardly time yet to open the 
canvass for a candidate, as several months we trust will intervene before 
holding a State convention to nominate." (2) 

1405 ■ H Nov. 1; ed:3/l - The Massillon GAZETTE hoists the name of 
Col. James Collier of Steubenville for governor, and in a spirited para- 
graph nails his banner to the masthead, "until a nomination is regularly 
mnde." Molly Stark has nobly proved herself on hand in routing the Hards, 
and will show no signs of widowhood next October. (I) 

1406 - H Nov. 3: ed:3/l - "Western Reserve," in the last STATESMAN, nom- 
inates Thomas L. Hamer for Governor, as the "ablest and best man" of the 
party. Does not this squint at thrusting aside those consistent Hards, 
Messrs. Tod, Utter, and Warner, for a candidate either Hard or Soft, as 

the crowd happens to be? (1) 

1407 - H Nov. 14; ed:2/2 - The Medina WHIG suggests the name of Hon. 
James Wilson, of Steubenville, as a suitable candidate for Governor. Mr. 
Wilson is a veteran Whig editor, having labored ardently and faithfully 

for the Whig cause in Ohio for more than thirty years. (verbatim) (1) 

1408 - H Nov. 22; ed:2/2 - The OHIO STATESMAN announces by authority, 
that Thomas L. Hamer declines having his name brought before the Locofoco 
state convention as a candidate for nomination for governor. The STATES- 
MAN says this is his fixed determination. 

The Softs will have to try again. (verbatim) (1) 

1409 - H Nov. 26; ed:3/2 - The Boston JOURNAL speaks highly of the leg- 
islative talents of the Hon. Elisha Whittlesey, and suggests that he 
would make a splendid governor for Ohio. 

"The above is true to the letter, but we have no idea that Mr. Whit- 
tlesey will consent to be a candidate. Such is our information, but not 
directly from him." (2) 

1410 - H Dec. 1; ed:2/2 - In a letter to the OHIO STATE JOURNAL, dated 
Nov. 26, the Hon. Elisha Whittlesey officially declines to be considered 
as a possible Whig nominee for governor next year. 

'Though Mr. W. declines entering the active field of politics, we 
know bis heart and hand will be with us through all the vicissitudes of 
the conflict - 'Whig still. Whig always' - while there is a remnant of 
the old Republican platform to stand on." (4) 

1411 - H Dec. 23; ed:2/3 - An article in the STATE JOURNAL gives a list 
of gentlemen who are possible candidates for governor; this list includes 
the name of John W. Allen of Cuyahoga county. 

"We have the very best authority for saying that the gentleman named 
in the above list, residing in Cuyahoga, is not a candidate for nomina- 
tion." (6) 



243

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1412 - 1416 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - Ohio (Cont'd) 

1412 - H Dec. 30; ed:2/2 - There have been several gentlemen mentioned 
as possible Whig gubernatorial candidates at the state convention to be 
held on Feb. 4. 

"Among the prominent names mentioned, is Col. James Collier, of Steu- 
benviHe, who was a favorite candidate before the Convention of 1844; 
and although our acquaintance with him is slight, we must confess, from 
reputation, he appears to be not only a glorious Whig, but especially 
entitled to popular favor." 

He is especially well known for his heroic conduct in the last war, 
at Fort George and at Queenstown. (4) 

1413 - H Dec. 20; ed:3/l - Representation at the Whig state convention in 
Columbus on Feb. 4 will be according to these provisions: Each county 
which gave 500 or less Whig votes for governor in 1844 will be entitled 
to one delegate; thereon, one delegate for each 500 votes. According 

to this Cuyahoga will send six delegates. 

"We presume the counties will all be represented, and feel assured 
that the proceedings of the Convention will be of the most harmonious 
character. Ohio occupies a proud position in the Whig column, and who- 
ever of the many good men named may be selected as the standard-bearer 
in 1846, he will be cordially and triumphantly supported in the contest 
with Locofocoism." (6) 

1414 - H Dec. 30; ed:3/l - The Hon. John Cary has refused to run for 
governor of Ohio, as has the Hon. Bellamy Storer. 

"Few men have as strong claims on the Whigs of Ohio, as Bellamy Storer." 

(3) 

State

1415 - H Apr. 12; ed:3/l - "Connecticut! All Whig!! 

"The 'old stubble field is again thoroughly burned over, ' and Texas- 
Locofocoism has been seared to the heart throughout the State, by the 
free expression of the popular will." 

Partial returns from six of the eight counties show with tolerable 
certainty that Whigs have elected a governor and have a majority in both 
houses. (6) 

1416 - H May 3; ed:2/l - The disaffection among the Whigs at Richmond 
and the general apathy in the party have given the Locos the state. The 
Locos have the entire delegation to Congress, with the exception of Pen- 
dleton. The Whigs now have two members less than they had at the last 
Congress. 

"In the State Legislature the Whigs as far as heard have lost eight 
members and gained two. 

"The Locos will have both branches and of course the U. S. Senator 
to be chosen." (2) 



244

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1417 - 1424 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - State (Cont'd) 

1417 - H Aug. 11; ed:3/l - The Louisville JOURNAL has rumors that in In- 
diana Robert Dale Owen is defeated, but places little reliance in them. 

In the Wayne district, C. B. Smith, Whig, has defeated Finley. In Sam- 
ple's district, the Locos lead. 

"The Locos will doubtless have the Legislature." (2) 

1418 - H Aug. 15; ed:3/l - The Whigs in Tennessee, have lost rather 
heavily especially in Robertson, Wilson, Rutherford, Bedford, and 
Williamson counties. "The Nashville papers, of Saturday, give a 

few returns which are not very favorable We give up the State." (2) 

1419 - H Aug. 16; ed:3/2 - Kentucky. - This state has done well. The 
Locofocos, from present appearances, have only elected two members of 
Congress, Tibbatts and Boyd. Adams, it is said, is elected over McKee 
(Whig) and Martin; and Trumbo over French. Legislature, Whig enough. ^"' 
(verbatim) (1) 

1420 - H Aug. 18; ed:3/l - Tennessee. - There appears to be little doubt 
that the Locofocos have carried their governor, but the UNION seems to 
fear that, as they have lost a member of the legislature in Weakly county, 
the legislature will be Whig. (verbatim) (1) 

1421 - H Aug. 20; ed:3/l - Curious coincidence. - In Davidson county, 
Tennessee, in which Nashville is situated, Mr. Polk was beaten, in the 
gubernatorial election of 1843, 583 votes. In 1844, (the presidential 
election) he was again beaten 582. In the late election, (1845,) Mr. 
Brown was beaten by Mr. Foster in this (his own) county, 583. Close 
running for three years. (verbatim) (1) 

1422 - H Sept. 2; ed:3/l - Mississippi Whigs have nominated a strong 
state ticket, with Gen. Patrick Henry for governor. 

"The Wiiigs of this State are determined to sleep not, until they wipe 
out the dishonor the repudiators have brought on them and theirs." (2) 

1423 - H Sept. 8; ed:3/2 - The Locofoco candidate for governor in New 
Hampshire. - Hill's PATRIOT says of him: "We know full well that a 
man of small pretension may be governor of the state; the new candidate 
is a little the smallest man of his genus that has yet been offered." 
This is saying a great deal, considering it is said by an Ex-Governor! 
(verbatim) (1) 

1424 - H Sept, 11:3/3 - Mr. Harris, Sir: - In your paper of the 10th 
inst., I see my name announced as a candidate for representative for 
this county. I do not wish to be considered a candidate. You will 
therefore please discontinue my name, and oblige yours, Daniel Warren, 
(verbatim) (1) 



245

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 184 5 

Abstracts 1425 - 1430 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS - State (Cont'd) 

1425 - H SepL 16; ed:2/l - The Whigs of the Green Mountain state have 
failed to elect Governor Slade, although the legislature is safely theirs; 
now it appears the Maine Locofocos have not been able to elect their man 
for governor, although the legislature is theirs. "The State election in 
Maine is a pretty good offset for the result in Vermont." (3) 

1426 - H Oct. 7; ed:3/l - By inter-party divisions and laxity, the WhigS 
of Maryland have suffered themselves to be overcome at the recent elec- 
tions, and instead of an entire Whi'^ delegation to Congress, the state 
will now be represented by two Whigs and four Locos. 

"Whigs of Cuyahoga! Whigs of the Reserve! Remember the lesson 
taught you by the Whigs of Maryland, and let no Whig have to reproach 
himself at V^e close of the polls on Tuesday next that he has neglected 
to vote - that he has neglected to discharge his duty as a freeman and 
good citizen." (5) 

1427 - H Nov. 15; ed:2/l - Massachusetts citizens held an election on 
Nov. 10 for a governor, a lieutenant governor, a congressman from the 
ninth district, and several state senators and representatives, with 
governor Brings, Whig, well in advance of the field. Some 144 Whig 
representatives and 14 senators were successful over their Loco oppo- 
nents. 

"Though the result is not all we could have wished, yet it may be re- 
garJed as a Whig triumph.... So that Loco-Focoism has not where to set 
its foot in the Old Bay State." (9) 

1428 - H Nov. 21; ed:3/2 - The Whigs in Massachusetts have, according 
to latest reports, captured 171 legislature seats, against 49 for the 
Democrats. Thus the house and the senate appear all Whig. 

"Old M'lssachusetts remains true to her principles!" (2) 

United Stales 

1429 - H Mar. 15; ed:2/3 • A motion was made in the U. S. Senate re- 
cently to print 5900 extra copies of Berrien's report relative to the fraud 
perpetrated through the naturalization laws at the late election. The 
"Locofocos" opposed it earnestly, every man rallied to the work, but they 
failed. The motion to print carried 24 to 22. 

"They do not want the People to see the evidence of the frauds they 
perpetrated upon the ballot-box in the election of Mr. Polk." (2) 

1430 - H Aug. 7; ed:3/l - Dorr &amp; McNulty. - McNulty is now the most prom- 
inent vice candidate for the Dorr presidential ticket. At a recent Dorr 
meeting at Mt. Vernon a portion of the Dorrites it is true tried to 
clamor him down when he made his speech, but failed. Mac's star is evi- 
dently in the ascendant among the Knox county Locofocos; for on the oc- 
casion of his arrival at Mt. Vernon, they testified their unbounded joy 

by a salute of 13 guns. Dorr himself could not have made a more trium- 
phant entry, than the Government Defaulter. (verbatim) (2) 



246

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1431 

POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS &amp; ELECTIONS ■ United States (Cont'd) 

1431 - H Oct. 22; ed:3/l - Florida. - An election for a Representative 
in Congress from the state of Florida, to supply the vacancy caused by 
the choice of David Levy as a United States Senator, took place on the 
6th inst. Edward C. Cabell was the candidate of the Whigs, in opposi- 
tion to whom the Locofocos ran W. H. Brockenbrough. Though we have 
seen but few returns, and these not decisive, we presume there is little 
doubt of the success of the Democratic candidate. (verbatim) (2) 

See also Political Parties; Politics &amp; Government - 



247

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1432 - 1437 

PLACEHOLDER

POLITICAL PARTIES 

1432 - H Feb. 1; ed:3/l - The leaders of the Liberty party in New York 
have issued a call for a day of humiliation and prayer to avert the 
threatened annexation of Texas. 

"A day of Thanksgiving would better accord with their votes." (1) 

1433 - H Feb. 10:2/4 - Protect free labor and northern rights. 

A Liberty convention will be held at Liberty hall, Hancock block, in 
this city, tomorrow. The object of the meeting will be made known at 
the time of meeting. 

Addresses are expected from Whitehorn, Hudson, Wade, and others, 
touching on the great interests of the country and the hopes and pros- 
pects of the party. All persons are invited to attend. 

One hundred and four delegates were appointed on Feb. 4 by the Liberty 
club of Cleveland to attend this convention. ^ , (4) 

1434 - H Feb. 11:3/4 - In a letter to the editor, J. Ranney says: "In 
noticing a call for a Liberty Convention in this city, I discovered my 
name attached as one of the delegates. Now, Sir, As I did not vote for 
annexation nor am I in favor of it in the modern acceptation of the term, 
I do not wish to be identified with the present policy of the party, al- 
though a friend to universal freedom." (1) 

1435 - H June 17; ed:2/l - The great Liberty convention at Cincinnati has 
adjourned sine die. We do not see from the proceedings that anything 
very important in regard to slavery or Texas was accomplished. 

Texas will probably come in notwithstanding the meeting. The votes 
of its members, if properly cast last fall, would have told with much 
stronger effect than mere paper resolutions now. (verbatim) (1) 

1436 - H June 21; pd:2/l - Anti-Slavery Convention Resolutions. The 
resolutions adopted bj' the late Liberty convention in Cincinnati number 
thirteen. Among other things, they resolved that it is the duty of 
political abolitionists to continue their organization and to nominate 
candidates for all elective offices, but that no nomination be made for 
the presidency and vice presidency before the fall of 1847, or the spring 
of 1848, but not a word is said in the resolutions adverse to the annexa- 
tion of Texas and the enlargement of the slave territory by that important 
acquisition! (verbatim) (2) 

1437 - H July 10; ed:2/l,2 - The Democratic state convention which opened 
at Columbus on July 4 was quite ambitious in its concepts and aims. Some 
40 counties were represented in the gathering which saw Colonel Medary 
reluctantly agree to serve as state chairman until Jan. 8, 1846. The 
"unwashed" hailed the addition of Texas to the union, pledged support to 
the administration in the matter of American claim to the Oregon territory, 
and demanded a vigorous carrying out of President Monroe's doctrine of 
1823. Resolutions were adopted crying for a thorough organization of 
state Democrats for the ensuing election and the freedom and independence 
of the state from the designs of the Federalists. 



248

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1438 - 1440 

POLITICAL PARTIES (Cont'd) 

"Such are the issues presented by the leaders of the Locofoco party.... 
The 'hards' are in the field early, and it behooves the Whigs to organ- 
ize early and thoroughly, if they would maintain the ascendency they now 
have in the Councils of Ohio." (9) 

1438 - H Sept. 12; ed:2/2 - No Democratic paper in the state has as yet 
spoken ill of the abominable Hamilton county Locofoco resolutions, al- 
though the Louisville JOURNAL, outside the state, has commented on their 
fanciful provisions, 

"So far, we have not seen the doctrines of the Hamilton county pro- 
gressives disavowed by a single Locofoco press or Convention in Ohio, and 
the party is now evidently marking time preparatory to stepping upon the 
platform the faithful are commanded to mount, under pain of Democratic 
excommunication." (4) 

1439 - H Sept. 22; ed: 2/1,2 - The anarchy, confusion, and disharmony 
prevailing in Locofoco ranks create more alarm than any threatening 
Mexican war. In New York the Locos are divided into the "Old Hunkers" 
and the "Barnburners," each believing the party organization is for its 
sole benefit. The banks and money are left alone by them. In Ohio the 
Hards and Softs constitute the two factions of Democracy, the former 
being dead bent on the destruction of all banks, and the others having 
like intentions, but decidedly less pronounced ones. The latter differ 
from the Hards in that they are willing to own bank stocks and paper 
money as individuals, but are at all times ready to vote their repeal 
politically. In a word, the Hards are outspoken, and the Softs have two 
faces. 

This anbiguity was everywhere evident among the local Softs at the 
Cuyahoga Loco convention on Sept. 13 at the court house. The Hards left 
no doubt as to their desire to repeal all banking systems and return to 
a "golden age" by an exclusive use of metallic currency. The Softs, on 
the other hand, acted confusingly. 

"To see directors and stockholders vote in favor of repealing the 
law under which they are dailv acting and cordially embracing, exhibits 
a degree of softness that can find no excuse or apology from us. And 
if it be the purpose of the 'Softs' to stay the progressive and destruc- 
tive doctrines of the 'Hards,' - if they would present the present Bank- 
ing System, and thereby save the business interests of every man and 
class of men in the State from embarrassment and ruin, let them speak 
out honestly, and cease playing this deceptive and cowardly game." (34) 

1440 - H Sept. 24; ed:3/l - The Softs appear to be shockingly alarmed at 
the public exhibition which we gave of their political features and con- 
duct in Monday's paper. It is not the first instance, on record, of 
terror occasioned by a truthful picture of personal or political de- 
formity, (verbatim) (1) 



249

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1441 - 1443 

POLITICAL PARTIES (Cont'd) 

1441 - H Sept. 29:2/2,3 - At a meeting of Whigs in Chagrin Falls town- 
ship on Sept. 26, the following resolutions were adopted after Curtis 
Bullardhad been selected chairman of the gathering and R. Beebe, secre- 
tary: 

That all men are born equal and independent; that, therefore, slavery 
is to be condemned; that the Black Laws of this state are repugnant to 
the principles of the constitution of Ohio, and should be repealed; that 
schools for the public should be encouraged by the legislature; that we 
favor a tax law based upon cash valuation, including all real and per- 
sonal property, so as to equalize taxation; that a mixed currency of 
specie and bank notes is indispensable to the wants of the community; 
that the state banking system is meritorious; that intemperance should be 
curbed by legislation; that slavery ought to be abolished from the union, 
or at least from the District of Columbia, else, that the seat of govern- 
ment be moved elsewhere; that the annexation of Texas to this union is a 
gross violation of the constitution for the benefit of slavery. (14) 

1442 - H Oct. 3; ed:2/l - There is much war talk afloat • the Mexican 
threat at Texas, the Mormon persecutions - but the most alarming is the 
struggle between the HarJs and Softs of the "Locofoco" party; more alarm- 
ing since it all began at the late Cuyahoga Loco convention. It appears 
that several discontented Softs wrote to the Washington UNION following 
the recent local convention, and started the alarming rumor that there 
were men here who were disorganizers of the party, bent on the destruction 
of the UNION, and replacement of the present office incumbents. The 
UNION immediately broadcast an alarm and called for opposition to this 
threatened party split, thus needlessly spreading a scare that was a 
purely local matter. The information was also given to father Ritchie of 
the UNION that there were two men in Cleveland who were the instigators 
of this break and the leaders of the new clan. 

"War is declared - the 'sword' is drawn • and now can a Locofoco 
Senate long debate, which of the two to choose. Hard or Soft men! 

"Seriously, if any thing more were wanting, to establish the folly 
and imbecility of the government organ, this last act must be deemed 
sufficient. . . . 

"This is indeed a great country. 'Swords' for two - coffee for one - 
thrust away, 'Father Ritchie.'" (17) 

1443 - H Oct. 13; ed:2/l - The war between the Loco Hards and the Loco 
Softs still rages, but whereas before it was an open one, it is now a 
struggle in ambush. Instead of meeting face to face, the war is carried 
on by secret bulletins which are sent to "Father Ritchie," and through 
him to the throne at Washington. Thus, Hards and Softs in Cleveland ac- 
cuse each other of party infidelity and both lay their grievances before 
Ritchie, attacking each other indirectly. Ritchie merely says: "We 
assure the public that it is no part of our duty to mingle in the little 
feuds which unfortunately have distracted our republican friends in Cleve- 
land." 



250

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1444 - 1446 

POLITICAL PARTIES (Cont'd) 

"That is what we call asking pardon for hastily taking side with the 
Softs.... 

"We are glad that Father Ritchie is at length resolved to see 'fair 
play.' At first, being 'ardent as a southern sun could make him,' he 
drew his 'sword' and rushed into the fight, but he has now very prudently 
'made a ring, ' and concluded to let the fight go on, without interfering." 

(12) 

1444 - H Oct. 16; eJ;2/l - It is rumored that Mackenzie has applied for 
possession of the letter sent by the Softs of Cleveland to "Father 
Ritchie," in which letter the Softs hint at party infidelity of the local 
Hards. Mackenzie intends to publish it together with his second expose 

of Butler Hoyt, and "Van Burenism." To "head 'em," a messenger has been 
despatched to the throne at Washington, and his success in heading off 
the publication will soon be known. 

"In the meantime it is hoped the Hards and the Softs will attend regu- 
larly upon 'the stated preaching of the Gospel.'" (3) 

1445 - H Oct. 21; ed:2/2 - The Washington UNION now publishes a statement 
by "Father Ritchie," touching on the Hard and Soft war in Cleveland, 
stating that neither Colonel Spencer, present local postmaster, nor Cus- 
toms Collector Dr. Inglehart will be removed. These two had been named 
in the famous Soft letter as the chief dissenters in local Locofoco ranks. 

"We sincerely hope that the Hards and the Softs will now return to 
their industrial avocations, that peace and fraternal fellowship will 
again prevail in the Locofoco camp, and the great Democratic party cease 
to fight for the spoils and plunder hereafter." 

As to Father Ritchie's taking a hand in this purely local fight, the 
action is extremely ludicrous. Father Ritchie is out of place and he 
will soon find that he will be displaced. 

"As between the Hards and Softs the National Organ has now defined its 
position, the 'Softs' are left to 'chew the bitter cud of disappointment,' 
while the 'Hards' can laugh and grow fat over the spoils of office, and 
daily become pregnant with more and more political might, under the cheer- 
ing assurance that Father Ritchie has at length taken his stand by the 
side of the Democrats who go against the banking system of the Whigs.... 

"The good citizens of this 'Far West' region can now indulge the expec- 
tation that Col. Polk's Administration will 'go ahead,' as the war with 
Mexico is 'no go,' and the war between the Hards and the Softs in Cleve- 
land in the 'Far West' is ended for the present." (18) 

1446 - H Oct. 24; ed:3/l - Since the Hards have been so handsomely floored 
by the paper pellets of the people, they are casting about for a Hercules 
to lift the party out of its ruins and head its ticket for governor. Three 
stalwarts are already mentioned: Col. David Tod of Trumbull; Dowty Utter, 
Esq., of Clermont, and Richard Warner, Esq., of Medina. 

"They are all of the hardest of the Hard school, and will pass muster 
when tried by the ordeal of the Hamilton county resolutions." (3) 



251

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1447 - 1450 

POLITICAL PARTIES (Cont'd) 

1447 - H Oct. 29; ed:3/2 - The editor of the Cincinnati UNION writes 
that the Hard leaders at Columbus have issued a call for Loco unification, 
following the recent disastrous elections in Ohio, even if that unifica- 
tion will spell a total relinquishment of the currency question in the 
state. 

"The 'Party' having lived for the last eight jears on the 'currency,' 
now absolutely propose to abandon it. We leave it to all sensible people, 
if this is not 'willful desertion,' under the statute of divorce? Has 
not the 'party' and the 'constitutional currency' bedded and boarded to- 
gether since their first liaison at the special session of Congress in 
1837? It is nothing less than downright cruelty to desert the 'constitu- 
tional currency' at this late hour." (10) 

1448 - H Oct. 30; ed:2/l - In his latest, Father Ritchie, writing in the 
Washington UNION, the official Pulk organ, attributes the recent fight and 
split in Cleveland Loco ranks to a difffrence of view on the banking 
situation, anJ suggests that future Loco efforts should be directed against 
the "mischievous" banking system in this state. He adds that the Cleveland 
spat has blown over, that it is not of a lasting character, and that there 
will be no demotions of government favorites here. 

"Little did we think that a petty fight tetween 'brethren of the same 
political faith' in the 'Far West' would result in agitating the delibera- 
tions of Col. Polk's Ministers of State." However, as it happened, the 
purely local controversy over money policy of the local Locos was alarm- 
ingly broadcast over the nation as the beginning of a national Loco split, 
causing needless alarm and building a gigantic mountain out of a mole hill. 
It is only an additional illustration of the truthful saying of the poet: 
"Great oaks from little acorns grow; big streams from little fountains 
flow." 

Perhaps the Cleveland TIMES can supply the names of the local citizens 
responsible for the whole affair! (19) 

1449 - H Oct. 31; ed:3/l - Some of the leading Locos of Pennsylvania have 
issued a call for a state tariff convention to convene this month. 

"What's the matter with the Locofocos of the old Key Stone?... Verily, 
gentlemen, your brood of lies are coming home to roost. The democracy of 
Pennsylvania had better have voted with the Whigs, who are for a tariff - 
for protection to home industry, than to have voted for a free trade man, 
and a free trade party. They had better have carried their principles of 
Protection to the ballot-box, than to a Tariff State Convention." (4) 

1450 - H Nov. 19; ed:2/l - "The rombat deepens! The Hards have completely 
but-generaled the Softs, have carried their masked battery, and have opened 
the captured guns upon the Soft wing of the 'harmonious Democracy with a 
vengeance! The TIMES of to-day charges with spirit along the line, and 
closes by applying the match to the party-pounder the Softs had charged 
with 'villninous salt petre' to the muzzle for the purpose of annihilating 
the Hards." 



252

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1451 - 1453 

POLITICAL PARTIES (Cont'd) 

A report from J. ff. Gray, C. Winslow, C. W. Heard. H. V. Willson and 
G, T. Barnum, to President Polk says the Democracy of Cuyahoga county is 
highly indignant over the appointment of T. P. Spencer to succeed Post- 
master Andrews recently. For several years past Spencer has been of no 
service to the party and in the campaign of 1844 he was entirely inactive. 

Under these circumstances they ask for the dismissal of Mr. Spencer 
from office and recommend George C. Dodge, Esq., in his stead. (18) 

1451 ■ H Dec. 1; ed:2/2 - The editor of the OHIO STATESMAN attempts to 
find a common ground for the Ohio Democracy to rally upon, and cites as 

a uniting platform this Columbiana county convention's resolution that any 
effort should be protested which may be made, either to drive the party 
forward with destructive impetuosity, or to retard its steady progress by 
an unworthy abandonment of the ground already assumed. - -x 

The state-wide adoption of this resolution is intended to unite all 
Locos - Hards and Softs, bank or anti-bank, Cass or Wright men. 

"Now, what those doctrines are no one can tell; and after all the ef- 
forts of the STATESMAN to define the position of the party, and establish 
a common platform upon which to do battle, he is compelled to endorse 
as his sentiments a resolution entirely indefinite - meaning nothing or any- 
thing - just as the 'wind sets' in the quarter where it is to be used. 
We despise this non-committal, double dealing policy, and if the editor of 
the State organ has not courage to come out boldly and define his position, 
he should remain still and not pretend to utter sentiments, when in fact 
he means nothing." (8) 

1452 - H Dec. 3; ed:3/l - The organ of the administration declares that we 
must "keep down, for many long months to come, all agitation about the 
next Presidency," for the reason that a wrangle about the presidency, af- 
fords but little opportunity calmly to appreciate the present blessings of 

a well administrated government." 

Democratic aspirants must therefore take notice and govern themselves 
accordingly. (verbatim) (1) 

1453 - H Dec. 18; ed:3/l - The Locos in Franklin county held a Convention 
on the 13th to appoint delegates to the 8th of January State Convention. 
The resolutions adopted go the Hard to the full extent, opposition to all 
paper money, and gold and silver only for "the laborer, the mechanic, the 
farmer, and the business men generally." They go for the "unconditional 
repeal of the bank law of last winter." Every "democratic voter in the 
county" was appointed to attend the State Convention on the 8th of January, 
(verbatim) (2) 

See also Banks &amp; Banking; Newspapers; Political Campaigns &amp; Elections; Politics &amp; Government 



253

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC, 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1454 - 1459 

PLACEHOLDER

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT 
Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga 

1454 - H Feb. 20; adv:2/4 - Persons having claims against the township 
are requested to present the same on or before the 3rd day of March next, 
that the Clerk may be prepared to make his annual statement. By order 
of the Trustees. B. Rouse, R. T. Lyon, H. Ranney, E. S. Flint, Clerk, 
(verbatim) (1)

1455 - H Mar. 11; ed:2/l - Cause and Effect. - The sagacious State Printer 
attributes the success of the Locos in the late charter election in this 
city, to the "rascally Whig Legislature." No doubt he attributes his ill 
success in obtaining a seat in Mr. Polk's Cabinet to the same terribly 
potent cause. (verbatim) (1) 

Ohio 

1456 - H Feb. 17; ed:3/l - New State House. The subject of completing 
the new State House was before the Legislature on the 13th, and a motion 
to indefinitely pistpone the bill in the House was lost. Yeas 29, nays 35. 
We hope measures will be adopted to employ the convicts and build the 
State House, since most of the miterials are on the ground, and the work 
can be done by a class of laborers whose present employment injuriously 
affects a portion of the mechanical interests of the people of the State, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1457 - H Ma--. 13:3/2 - Registry Law. - In the House, on Monday, Mr. Drake, 
from a select committee, reported back the bill to provide for registering 
the names of electors, and to prevent frauds, with amendments, which were 
agreed to. Mr. Woolsey moved to amend by extending the provisions of 

the bill to Cuyahoga county, which was agreed to, and the bill passed, yeas 
39, nays 27 - a party vote. (verbatim) (1) 

1458 - H Mar. 17; ed:2/2 - The Ohio legislature adjourned this morning 
after a long and wearisome session of 101 days. "We feel quite confident 
that no Legislature ever before convened in Ohio, labored more intensely 
and devotedly than those whose doings were brought to a close this day. 

"Seme conception of the amount of business transacted can be formed, 
when we state that 64 General Laws, 403 Local acts, and 74 Resolutions 
were matured and adopted." (41) 

1459 - H Apr. 5; ed:3/l - The STATESMAN announces the appointment by 
the President of the Hon. Thomas W. Hartley as district attorney of Ohio, 
and of D. A. Robertson, Esq., as marshal of the state. 

"The appointments are a complete triumph of the Van Burenites over 
the Cassites in Ohio." (2) 



254

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1460 - 1463 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - Ohio (Cont'd) 

1460 - H July 9; ed:3/l - The Laws of 1844- '5. - Where are the laws passed 
at the last session of the legislature of the state of Ohio? About four 
months have passed away since the adjournment of the legislature, and the 
laws have not been seen in this section of the state. The fault lies at 
some door. If they have been printed, and stitched, where are they? Who 
at Columbus can tell us? The people about here enquire every day, "Where 
are the laws?" It is a maxim, "that ignorance of the law excuseth no 
man," but how are we to know what laws we are to be governed by, unless 
we can have theiB? (verbatim) (2) 

1461 - H Aug. 29; ed:3/2 - The Whig legislature of Ohio last winter abol- 
ished the board of public works and established a new one, alleging as a 
reason that the Locofoco incumbents had abused their trust. Of course 
the Locofocos objected and commenced to abuse the Whigs until the estab- 
lishment of a board of investigators, appointed to look into the conduct 
of the discharged Locos. The investigators are still engaged in their 
work, but prefer to remain silent on their findings until a complete re- 
port is ready. 

A look into public records shows clearly how these Locofoco board 
members appropriated thousands of dollars for their own pockets. One 
contractor was paid $9,000 for work which was never done; another was 
paid for digging a nine foot deep ditch whereas the actual excavation was 
14 inches; still another was given public contracts at exorbitant prices 
without competition, and he sublet them, collecting enormous sums for no 
work at all; one, a Timothy Bates, was a defaulter already in the sum of 
$7,940 when re-appointed to the board by the Locos in 1838. He still has 
not paid a cent of that default sum. 

"It is said these extraordinary allowances were shared between the 
contractors and the officers of the State; but whether so or not, is a 
matter not material in this point of view; either way the propriety of 
getting rid of the late Board is equally demonstrated." (16) 

1462 - H Sept. 2; ed:2/l,2 - The article from the OHIO STATE JOURNAL 
stating the abuses of the board of public works published in the HERALD 

a few days since, has brought out a sort of reply from an anonymous corres- 
pondent of the OHIO STATESMAN. Without attempting to refute the allega- 
tions of the JOURNAL, the writer resorts to personal abuse, the usual 
weapon of party scribblers who attempt to defend obviously guilty friends. 

"No honest man who reads the articles from the STATE JOURNAL, the 
facts drawn from an investigation by a committee appointed by the Legisla- 
ture, will hesitate to agree that the course in removing the old Board of 
Public Works merits the approval of the people of Ohio, and the marvel will 
be that they should have been suffered to remain so long in office, disburs- 
ing millions of the people's money, without a periodical settement of ac- 
counts." (15) 

1463 - H Sept. 12; ed:3/l - Some time last fall would-be-governor Tod's 
organ at Warren announced that Mr. Tod would not accept of office under 
the Polk administration. Is Mr. Tod's trip to Lake Superior on his own 
account, or does he get a liberal per diem and roast beef from government? 
(verbatim) (1) 



255

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1464 - 1468 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - Ohio (Cont'd) 

1464 • H Nov. 26; ed:2/T - We agree entirely with the sentiments expressed 
by the OHIO STATESMAN thai the salaries given to our governor and judges 
and some other officers are entirely too low. We care not as to this - 
whether the incumbents be Whig or Locofoco. For the honor of the state 
as well as for the interests of the people, we say unhesitatingly that 

it is disgraceful to the third state in the union that we should pay such 
miserable salaries as we do. 

To the men of wealth any salary we give would be of little or no con- 
sequence; but the number of such in an old, wealthy country, and espe- 
cially in a new and comparatively poor one like ours, bears but a small, 
very small, proportion to the mass, and each individual of that mass, with 
few exceptions, must consider himself as excluded from the race for public 
honors, or he must consent in advance that his wife and children and 
household goods should all be consigned to poverty. 

"We claim to be democrats in the original acceptance of the term, and 
if the opinions we have expressed be federal or tory, all we have to say 
is, as did the celebrated Patrick Henry, - 'make the most of them!'" (17) 

1465 - H Dec. 11:3/1 - All interested in the division of the district of 
Ohio will meet at the council hall tomorrow. (1) 

1466 - H Dec. 15; ed:2/2 - An article in the STATESMAN says that in the 
house, Mason of the committee on privileges and elections presented his 
report in reference to the eligibility of Drake, cashier of the Xenia 
bank. Mason's report argued t at Dr^ke was entitled to his seat. 

"So it seems that although the committee were unanimous in their con- 
clusions as to Mr. Drake's eligibility to his seat, still the minority 
must travel entirely away from the question they were called upon to try, 
and read the people a lecture upon 'the impropriety of electing Bank 
presidents and cashiers to legislate for themselves.'" (5) 

(Finance) 

1467 - H Aug. 25; ed:3/l - The New York NEWS, commenting on the letter of 
Elisha Whittlesey on the subject of Ohio stocks, comments thus: "Now we 
state again, that this is not a stork on which to base a system of cur- 
rency for a great State, nor on which to base the security of the finances 
of the federal government." 

Thus while the Hards and the destructives of the home Locofoco party 
are attacking the bank of Wooster for the purpose of arousing an anti-bank 
panic, their co-laborer in New York is warring upon the credit of Ohio 
with the hope of affecting the general banking system. "Such is Locofoco- 
ism. Are the people of Ohio prepared to countenance party assaults on 
their credit and their institutions?" (3) 

1468 - H Sept. 4; ed:2/l - The OHIO STATESMAN now takes back what its 
correspondent said concerning the poor state of the finances of Ohio, and 
states that it had no desire to depress the credit of the state abroad. 



256

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1469 ■ 1473 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - Ohio (Finance) (Cont'd) 

"Well said, Mr. STATESMAN, and a pungent rebuke to District Attorney 
Bartley and the knot of destructives who have been attempting to play into 
the hands of the N. Y. stock gamblers by crying down Ohio State Stocks, 
and from the right quarter, too." (5) 

1469 - H Dec. 18:2/2 - Cuyahoga county is one of 20 Ohio counties to 
make returns under the retrenchment law, $161 having been paid in by 
local county officers. Sixty-one other counties have made no returns 
whatever. 

In regard to county officers other than treasurer, the law is not 
generally enforced by the county commissioners, to whom the matter 
was entrusted by the law of last winter. (3) 

1470 • H Dec. 19:3/1 - According to the state auditor's report, the _, - 
amount of capital in trade and money at interest in the state for 1842 

was $7,812,698, and in 1845, $13,556,507, an increase of almost 50 per 
cent. The Cuyahoga county totals for 1842 were $222,213, and for 1845, 
$409,968, also a sizeable increase. (4) 

1471 - H Dec. 31:2/1 - The state auditor has reported to the house the 
amount of capital in trade and money at interest, returned to the auditor 
of the several counties for the years from 1842 to 1845. A comparison 
of the returns of the Reserve counties shows the difference made by the 
tax law of last winter: capital in the 11 Reserve counties in 1844, 
$786,635; capital in the 11 Reserve counties in 1845, $1,807,294. 

Cuyahoga capital totaled $288,769 in 1844. This year $409,968 was 
reported for taxation. (4) 

S tate 

1472 - H Jan. 7; ed:2/l - There is promise of still further trouble for 
Massachusetts in extending the protection of her laws over her citizens. 
An agent has been sent to New Orleans for the same purpose for which "H." 
was sent to Charleston, and the probability is that he will receive no 
better treatment than was received by the other gentleman. 

The affairs of the nation are in a pretty condition indeed, when citi- 
zens of one State cannot pass into another State without being incarcer- 
ated in a dungeon! (verbatim) (2) 

1473 - H Jan. 25; ed:2/l - The legislature of Rhode Island passed a bill 
directing the liberation of Thomas W. Dorr on the sole condition of his 
taking the usual oath of allegiance to the state. 

"As little more capital can be expected to ensue from his incarceration 
by the blood-thirsty Algerines, we think Mr. Dorr's Counsellors should 
advise his conforming to the requisitions of the bill, as a matter of 
policy." (5) 



257

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1474 - 1478 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - State (Cont'd) 

1474 - H Mar. 17; ed:4/l - "The Senate of Michigan appear to have pretty 
effectually brought contempt upon their own body by their contemptible 
proceedings against Judge Wilkins and others, for breach of privilege in 
issuing process for the arrest of Senator Williams. 

"Mr. Davidson, one of the persons brought before the Senate for con- 
tempt, took his departure for New York before the case was disposed of, 
and very cooly left behind him a scathing epistle addressed to the Senate, 
in which he informs the dignitaries of Locofocoism that they can forward 
bis 'reprimand' through the Post office!" (3) 

1475 - H July 3; ed:3/T - The Providence GAZETTE says of Governor Dorr, 
recently released from prison: "Dorr must not continue a discharged 
convict. His friends will not only bestcw upon him all the privileges 
and immunities now denied him, but they will urge him onward to the most 
honorable posts in the gift of Americans." Dorr swears he will not 
abandon the principles which sent him to jail. 

"A ticket in 1848 very possibly will read - Dorr, President; Houston, 
Vice." (3) 

1476 - H Sept. 27; ed:2/1,2 - The late New York papers are filled with 
developments which unveil modern Democracy and exhibit to the world the 
political deformity of the "high priests" of the party and also expose 

to public gaze the frauds for years practiced upon the people. It seems 
that when Jessie Hoyt left the New York custom house, he left behind him, 
in his eager haste, a mass of letters and papers which fell into the hands 
of the PoinJexter investigating committee and by them were removed to 
Washington; they have since been published, making a book of 152 pages. 
The letters of Governor Marcy, Van Buren and his son John, Stephen Allen, 
B. F. Butler, and others, to Jessie Hoyt are given. 

"The developments in this book are startling and humiliating, showing 
a degree of political knavery and corruption in high places, that is 
seldom exposed in the Despotisms of Europe." (28) 

1477 - H Oct. 6; ed:3/2 - The Boston POST comments on, and lauds the fact 
that Governor Briggs recently turned out and aided a fire company in ex- 
tinguishing a village fire; the honorable governor taking his stand with 
several others at the water pumps. 

"We cannot see anything in the above 'incident,' which confers more 
credit upon Gov. Briggs, than the same act should have done upon Auditor 
Briggs, as both have thrown cold water very extensively in their 'day and 
generation. ' 

"We do not like the fulsome manner in which the acts of our high public 
functionaries are spoken of. We do not know that a man is entitled to any 
more respect from his fellow-citizens because he is a public servant, than 
when a private citizen." (4) 

1478 - H Nov. 15; ed:2/l - Tennessee's Locofoco Governor Brown has sent a 
message to the state's legislature recommending abolition of the death 



258

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1479 - 1482 . . 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - State (Cont'd) 

penalty, the erection of a new penitentiary, a liberal system of public 

education, and the reorganization of the state bank. 

"The governor does not appear to be a Locofoco of the radical stripe." 

(3) 

(Finance) 

1479 - H Nov, 21; ed;2/2 - The sub-treasury, if good for the union, is ' 
good also for each state - at all events the Democracy of Tammany Hall 
believes so and the Loco party in every state leans toward such a belief. 

"Let every State have its sub-treasurers. There will then be a grand 
manifestation of the system; it will soread over the land like a piece of 
network, and doubtless it will tend greatly to the diffusion of the public 
money among the people. The maxim that to the victors belong the spoils 
might find ample and most complete application under this system." (5) 

United States 

1480 - H Jan. 4; ed:2/l - "Polk versus Benton. - The Nashville UNION, of 
Saturday, Mr. Polk's mouth piece, is out against Benton's Bill for the 
annexation of Texas." The UNION says: "We regret the introduction of 
Mr. Benton's bill, because it places him in a suspicious attitude in 
reference to his Democratic sympathies.... We sincerely hope that the 
anxious fears entertained so generally by our friends as to his future 
course may be agreebly disappointed." (2) 

1481 - H Jan. 6; ed:2/2 • "It is not for us to indulge in speculations 
as to the persons who may be chosen to form Mr. Polk's cabinet, since 
that is an affair which belongs not to the Whigs, and over which they 
have no control in the way of advising, approving, or dissuading. We may 
refer, however, to such intimations on the subject as appear to come from 
sources of more or less authenticity. 

"The Nashville UNION, which may be regarded perhaps as Mr. Polk's most 
immediate organ at present, says of the president elect: 'In making up 
his cabinet, he will not have any regard as to the question of the suc- 
cession. He will not take sides between Messrs. Calhoun and Wright.' 

'The inference from this seems to be that Mr. Calhoun is to remain at 
the head of the State Department." (4) 

H Jan. 18; ed:3/l - See Duels &amp; Dueling 

H Jan. 21; ed:3/l - See Persons &amp; Personages 

1482 - H Jan. 21; ed:3/l - Massachusetts, Delaware, and Maryland have just 
elected Whig members to the next U. S. Senate. 

"The next Senate of the United States will present a powerful conserva- 
tive Whig front." (8) 



259

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 14S3 - 1487 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

1483 • H Jan. 21; ed:3/l - Eye On The Gun - President Tyler has sent to 
the Senate the nomination of W. H. Folk, brother of the President-elect, 
who has for some weeks past been the lion at Washington among office 
holders and office expectants, as Charge to Naples. Should the nomina- 
tion be confirmed, which is probable, the President-elect will be eased 
of the charge of providing a fat berth for a brother, and the acting 
President will have a fresh claim for favor in behalf of his favorite 
office-holders. The nomination, under the circumstances, is a coincidence 
not very flattering to the hopes of the outs now greedy for the sops of 
the ins. (verbatim) (2) 

1484 - H Jan. 23; ed:2/l - McNulty appears likely to meet his just deserts. 
He has been expelled from the clerkship of the House of Representatives, 
and the resolution requiring the President to institute criminal proceed- 
ings against him, for embezzlement of public money, was adopted with but 
four negative votes. 

"McNulty has now attained the disgrace which should ever brand drunken- 
ness, rowdyism, licentiousness and knavery, in public or private life. 
With talents and business capacity fitted for honor and usefulness, strong 
drink and uncontrolled passions have reduced him to the level of the most 
degraded - a fearful warning to all whose feet incline to descending 
slippery paths." (4) 

1485 - H Jan. 29; ed:2/l - "McNulty's defalcation is a pretty good illus- 
tration of the practical working of the Sub-Treasury system." The sub- 
treasury department thought that the depository of public funds provided 
by Congress was not the best, and assumed the responsibility of removing 
the public funds to depositories more congenial to its anti-bank feelings. 
McNulty's sub-treasureis did not p^y over when the funds were demanded. 
Congress required securities of MvNulty - and penalties for defalcation are 
imposed. But did all this precaution keep the public funds from sticking 
t) their fingers? "Not at all, and the people have learned a fresh sub- 
Treasury lesson in the footstep treading of McNulty." (4) 

1486 • H Jan. 29:3/1 - We are indebted to Giddings for a copy of the 
Presidert's message and accompanying reports, a large and valuable volume. 
Our thanks also to Kelley, Woolsey, and Harvey for legislative documents. 
Each se-^ator or member of the House gets from 25 to 30 copies of the 
message. (4) 

1487 - H Jan. 30; ed:3/l • A Washington correspondent writes that he is 
told that the condition of McNulty's bond was such that if he was allowed 
at any time to command a larger sum than that mentioned in the bond, it 
should become void and of no effect. And the sureties now say, that the 
officers of the Treasury, having violated the condition of the bond, and 
allowed McNulty to obtain as much money as his pleasures or his necessities 
required, they are no longer holden. The statement may be so, but does 

not look very probable. (verbatim) (2) 



260

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1488 - 1492 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

1488 - H Feb. 17:2/1 - The ball of the House of Representatives was 
crowded on Feb. 12 to witness the ceremony of counting the electoral 
votes. The total number of votes cast was 275, making the number 
necessary for a majority, 138, James K. Polk received 170 votes for 
President, and Henry Clay received 105. The vice presidential candi- 
dates, George M. Dallas and Theodore Frelinghuysen, also received 170 
and 105 votes, respectively. The announcement declaring Mr. Polk 
President, and Mr. Dallas, vice president, for the term beginning 

Mar. 4, 1845, was made by the president of the Senate. (4) 

1489 - H Feb. 26; ed:3/l - John Jones states in the MADISONIAN of 
Feb. 20 that the president-elect has managed the difficulties attend- 
ing the selecting of a cabinet with "surpassing skill and ability," 

and that "inasmuch as no mortal man has been enabled to obtain the .^ - 

slightest intimation of his purposes and intentions, he escapes annoy- 
ance from the friends of the parties doomed to disappointment." 

"It is very evident that John Jones at least has not as yet been 
transferred from the 'kitchen cabinet' of John Tyler to the 'kitchen 
cabinet' of James K. Polk." (2) 

1490 - H Mar. 4; ed:3/l - At 12 o'clock today. John Tyler yielded the 
executive power into the hands of James K. Polk. 

"We might say much of the change - contrast John Tyler of 1840 with 
John Tyler of 1845 - speak the apostasy of a public man as a public 
calamity - of the high hopes and bitter disappointment four years have 
brought to the Whig party - but, on the principle of 'being thankful for 
small favors,' we shall spare our readers the humility.... The People, 
save and except the office-holders, to-day utter a heart-felt Amen!" (2) 

1491 - H Mar. 11; ed:3/l • Perkins, in the U. S. Senate, from the majority 
of the committee on the judiciary, has introduced a bill for amending the 
congressional district law of 1842. 

"The introduction of the Bill has provoked the ire of the State Printer 
to a fresh outburst, pretty good evidence, that the changes contemplated' 
by the bill are about as they should be." (4) 

1492 - H Mar. 11; ed:2/l - George Bancroft, the historian, on his return 
from Europe connected himself with a literary institution, with the view 
of teaching the young American sprigs "how to shoot." He gave a new and 
novel direction to the mental and physical exercises of his pupils, solemnly 
announcing as the reason - "Thus they do in Germany." 

The Yankee boys stood it as long as endurance was a virtue and then 
"bolted" - They surrounded Bancroft's home and threw brickbats through 
the windows. His "school keeping" ended about that time. 

"The 'water-craft' in Germany are modeled after the picture of Noah's 
Ark in the Primer. Should the said Mr. Bancroft be confirmed as Secretary 
of the Navy, we hope and trust the foregoing practical illustration of how 
'they do in Germany,' will exclude ante-diluvian models in shipbuilding." 

(8) 



261

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1493 - 1498 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

1493 - H Mar. 28; ed:2/l- - The other side. We were told this morning 
by a gentleman late from Washington, and who may be supposed to have 
inquired into the matter, that the Tyler office-holders will have to walk 
the plank pretty generally, ere long. Those only whose commissions soon 
expire will be allowed to continue to the end. 

"We shall see." (1) 

1494 - H Mar. 31; ed:2/l - The Hon. William Medill of Ohio has been ap- 
pointed second assistant post master general in place of Dr. Miller, Tyler's 
brother-in-law, and it is stated that Dr. Miller is to have the place of third 
assistant post master general, held by Skinner. 

"Ex Auditor Brough and ex-State Printer Me^ary are in Washington look- 
ing for 'bread and butter' spoils," (8) 

1495 - H Apr. 10; ed:3/l,2 - The Nashville UNION says: Concerning the 
rumors that President Polk wishes to be reelected for a seccni term, we 
feel perfectly warranted in saying that any and every intimation that he 
has ever entertained the idea of reelection, is wholly unfounded. 

"We take it to be an authentic exposition of the intention of President 
Polk in the matter to which it relates." (3) 

1496 - H May 13; ed:2/l - The Locofocos will undoubtedly have the ascen- 
dency in both branches of the next Corgress. 

"The Administration will therefore have fair sailing, so far as major- 
ities are concerned, ard the measures of the party in relation to Texas, 
Oregon, the Tariff, and the Sub Treasury will no doubt be established at 
the next session." (2) 

1497 - H May 13; ed:3/l - The PLAIN DEALER says: Dr. Inglehart takes 
possession today, and we are informed has appointed George B. Tibbits, 
one of our most estiniable citizens and an excellent business man, deputy 
collector, and John Perry, inspector. 

(H) "As we never suffer politics to withhold a deserved meed of com- 
mendation, we cannot permit the long, faithful, and meritorious public 
services of the now ex- Deputy Collector, D. W. Cross, Esq., to pass un- 
noticed. Mr. Cross became connected with the Custom House service at 
this port when Lake Commerce was just throwing off its swaddling clothes, 
and he has been a faithful foster-father to its interests and the interests 
of the Government ever since Success attend him. 

"R. Parks, Esq., the ex-Inspector, has been a watchful, energetic of- 
ficer; and we wish our ousted Democratic friends, under a Democratic Ad- 
ministration, 'better luck next time.'" (3) 

1498 - H May 13; ed:2/l - The Polk axe is falling with unerring precision 
on the necks of Tyler office-holders, no matter how loud-mouthed were their 
shouts for "Polk and Texas." "While the broad-axe is slowly striking off 
the full-fed necks, the small locomotive guillotines of the Departments are 
scouring the country for Tyler victims, and the race will soon become ex- 
tinct.... Sic transit Tylerism." (4) 



262

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1499 - 1502 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

1499 - H June 27; ed:2/l - President Polk removed Maj. W. B. Lewis, an 
original Jackson man, from the post of second auditor, without a state- 
ment as to the reason for his so doing. 

Polk recently gave the reason confidentially to a friend in Tennessee, 
which was so offensive to Lewis that he has written two very caustic 
letters to the President asking for an apology for injuries and imputa- 
tions on Lewis' character. No answer as yet has been forthcoming. 

"We notice the matter that our readers may begin to learn who 'James 
K. Polk is.'" (11) 

1500 - H July 1; ed:3/2 - Numerous changes in government offices through- 
out the country are going into effect today. Removals are being made to 
satisfy the troops of office-seekers even in cases where the commission 
has some time to run yet. "Perhaps an instance never occurred under our 
Government in which removals from office excited so little attention and 
sympathy. The fact that the man held office under John Tyler appears to 
be a sufficient cause for a change, in the opinion of the Executive, and 

the people, of all parties, very naturally coincide in the opinion." (3) 

1501 - H July 2; ed:2/l - The Van Ness letter bids fair to create some 
trouble with the faithful among the "outs," whilst the "ins" tremble in 
their shoes lest their turn may come next, and between the two, the pub- 
lic, especially those who have length of days granted to them, may yet 
learn who Jomes K. Polk is. Rotation in office is a glorious principle 
when the Whigs are the officers, but Locofocoism has no particular fancy 
for the application of the principle when Locos are the incumbents. The 
General's letter shows plainly that he thinks "rotation" should not be 
applied where the occupant is a dyed in the wool Democrat, but if there 
was not to be a general clearing out of all the offices after every "vic- 
tory," it would be the interest of the off ice- hunters to have their 
political opponents succeed alternately, as that would be the only course 
by which they could hope to attain office. Before the election the great 
Tennesseean was all the Democratic party desired, but if General Van Ness 
and Maj. W. B. Lewis, great guns of "the party," are to be believed, he 
has fallen from his high estate and become the petty peddler of cold meats 
and garbage of the Executive larder. 

"We think we can see the Colonel, with consummate grace and irony, hand- 
ing such venerable office-holders their 'walking tickets' with something 
like the following speech: 'Reverend Sirs: For you there's rosemary and 
rue; these keep seeming and savour all the winter long; Grace and remem- 
brance be to you both, and welcome to our shearing.'" (9) 

1502 - H July 19; ed:2/l - Robert J. Walker, secretary of the treasury, 
is getting himself into trouble. Upon his appointment to the high office 
in the treasury, he was forced to give up his regular seat in the U. S. 
Senate. The governor of Mississippi immediately appointed one Jacob 
Thompson, a Mississippi member of the House, to fill the vacated Senate 
seat. Thompson's comnission was enclosed in a letter to Walker, but very 



263

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1503 - 1508 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

strangely it never reached the former. Now, Locofoco enthusiasts claim 
this is a deliberate vengeance by Walker upon the Mississippi congress- 
man because the latter denounced the alleged Chickisaw claims fraud which 
Walker was supposed to have fostered. So convinced are the Locos of 
Walker's guilt that they are petitioning President Polk for his removal. 
"If this be so, Mr. W. has exposed himself to very serious imputations." 

(9) 

1503 - H July 22; ed:3/l - The UNION of Thursday contradicts the "rumor" 
of Mr. Buchanan's resignation - says that there is not a shadow of founda- 
tion for it, and that it is not circulated at Washington. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1504 - H July 30; ed:3/l - The New York EVENING POST (Loco) intimates, 
in no very indistinct terms, that Mr. Polk bought up enough of his partisans 
in Congress to decide the Texas question. The POST says that "of the 
sixteen northern members in the House who voted for annexation, thirteen 
have sinre received office from the President, and three are yet to be 
provided for." Ought members of Congress to be eligible to executive 
appointments? (verbatim) (1) 

1505 - H Aug. 1; ed:3/l - The Locofocos of Elyria have in public meeting 
decided that Mr. Chapman, the Tyler P. M., should not be removed by Col. 
Polk. The scenes at the meeting were rather rich, but the aspirants to 
the office appear to have been pretty effectually floored. So there is 
some probability that one Tyler office-holder will hold on. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1506 - H Aug. 9; ed:2/l - President Polk is busy as a man in harvest 
time, knocking down office-holders and setting up new ones, and the Tyler 
corps are consequently all trembling, for they know their doom is nigh. 

"Nearly every UNION contains official notices of decapitations, and 
instead of fault finding on account thereof, we are rather pleased to see 
the work go on." (3) 

1507 - H Aug. 12; ed:3/l - The Detroit FREE PRESS states that the appoint- 
ment of commissioner of mineral lands on Lake Superior has been offered 

to Hon. Elon Farnsworth, of Detroit, and declined! A new thing under 

the sun! (verbatim) (1) 

1508 - H Aug. 16; ed:2/l - The supporters of Polk at the last election 
now find his promises empty as the wind. "Tylerites," fooled in support- 
ing Polk by his pledges not to remove them from office, are in sorrow, 
for Polk has slaughtered them all and replaced them with his own men. 

"Whatever these weak supporters of the renegade Tyler deserved, makes 
no difference in the grade of moral turpitude on the part of Mr. Polk in 
gaining their aid by downright falsehood; he promised, and an honorable 
man would have performed. 

"In a word, the betrayed and abused Whig party was not more disappointed 
by the treachery of 'honest John Tyler' in 1840, than is the Locofoco party 
destined to be by James K. Polk in 1845." (15) 

H Sept. 2; ed:3/l - See Banks &amp; Banking 



264

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1509 - 1514 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd)

1509 - H Sept. 9; ed:3/l - As usual, the west is entirely overlooked in 
the distribution of important government offices - out of 181 consulates, 
Ohio has not one, and out of all the important government posts, not one 
is filled from any stite northwest of the Ohio. 

"The West has learned who 'James K. Polk is,' but the Executive does 
not appear to have heard of the West. Or perhaps he did hear that the 
Ohio delegates to the Baltimore Convention stuck to the Lindenwald Farmer 
until a pretty considerable row was kicked up, and that the State of Ohio 
finally voted for the Farmer of Ashland for President." (2) 

1510 - H Sept. 18; ed:3/l - The official organ of the 13th reiterates that 
Mr. Polk "will firmly abide by the resolutions of the Baltimore Conven- 
tion," and the official organ now says it does "not recognise, or adopt 

as legitimate, the expression 'in favor of the protective tariff within 
the revenue standard'" - the language if we mistake not of Mr. Polk's 
electioneering tariff letter to Mr. Kane of Pennsylvania. (verbatim) (1) 

1511 - H Oct. 8; ed:3/2 - The Washington UNION, the official organ of 
the administration, in exulting over the defeat of Messrs. Kennedy and 
Wethered in Maryland, declares that "they (ihe Locofocos of Maryland) 
have sounded the last note of the death-knell of the Tariff of 1842, in 
the ears of Whig leaders." 

What say the Pennsylvania Democracy who voted for "Polk and the Tariff 
as it is," to this death-knell note? Will they now echo it? (verbatim) 

(I) 

1512 - H Oct. II; ed:2/2 - The 29th Congress will be decidedly Locofoco - 
a majority of six in the Senate and 60 in the House. The Texas annexa- 
tion problem will come up for settlement, as will occupancy measures for 
Oregon. The fiat has gone forth that the present tariff must be repealed, 
and when Locofocoism once gets afloat its free trade bubble, it is not 
difficult to see where it will land." The dictating South will control 

the whole matter in the final adjustment, even to keeping on a good round 
duty on sugar and cotton. The Northern dough-faces of the party have 
yielded all to the South, until the chivalry feel that they have a sort 
of divine right to lord it over white as well as black slaves." (3) 

H Nov. 7; ed:2/l - See Shipping &amp; Ships 

1513 - H Nov. 7; ed:2/2 - The leading Locos of Tennessee continue to make 
wry faces over the election to the U. S. Senate of Turney, an anti-Polk 
Democrat. 

"It has thrown their party calculations out of gear, and the machinery 
creaks woefully." (3) 

1514 - H Dec. 8; ed:3/l - In the U. S. House of Representatives on Dec. 1, 
it was resolved that a committee be appointed to revise the rules of the 
House. The committee consists of six Locofocos and three Whigs, the latter 
all from the free states. Five of the Locofocos are from slave states. 



265

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1515 - 1518 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

"No doubt the whole object of this movement is to revive the odious 
21st rule, rejecting abolition petitions, and with such a committee, it 
is not hard to predict the complexion of the report." 

(4) 
1515 - H Dec. 16; ed:3/l - The only "aye" from Ohio in favor of reviving 
the "gag rule" came from Faran of Cincinnati. 

"Thank heaven there was but a solitary 'aye' from this State, and 
that too, from a man louder than any other in his professions of love 
for the people." (2) 

1516 - H Dec. 13; ed:3/l • Giddings of this district has been appointed 
chairman of the committee on claims. 

"We believe it is acknowledged by all acquainted with affairs in 
Washington, that Mr. Giddings is one of the most faithful and laborious 
working men in Congress, and admirably qualified to fill the important 
post whose duties were so well discharged by Mr. W." (E. Whittlesey) (3) 

1517 - H Dec. 18; ed:3/l - The portion of the President's message to 
Congress referring to Oregon and the tariff, has been whole heartedly 
accepted, approved, and praised in South Carolina. It had been expected 
that the south would not look upon Oregon with much enthusiasm because 
of her peculiar institution and her cotton trade with England. 

"But it would serm from the givings out of the organ of the administra- 
tion that the dominant party in the South will go as far as the farthest, 
and that in South Carolina the President's Message on the subject of 
Oregon obtains the most unqualified approval." (3) 

1518 - H Dec. 31; ed:2/2 - Father Ritchie, through his Washington UNION, 
takes the Whigs to task and derides them for their party stand against 
"instruction" - instruction being the right of a legislature to control 
the vote of the senators it appoints, etc. Ritchie cherishes this 
"instruction" as a "must essential privilege of the constituent body." 

No doubt Ritchie has in mind Senator Niles of Connecticut, who, against 
his legislature's instructions, voted recently for the admission of Texas 
into the union, slaves and all. 

"The whole doctrine of instruction is rank heresy, for if acknowledged 
in its full force, the Constitutional Senatorial term of six years is in 
effect superseded by a term dependent upon the pleasure of the Legislature, 
and for that stability in Government, intended to be attained, is substi- 
tuted mere popular caprice.... 

"The truth is, modern Democracy means that Whig or Independent Senators 
only shall obey such mandates, but not their own party-hacks, who may dis- 
obey and misrepresent their constituents year in and year out, and yet be 
unadulterated Democrats. 

"If this be not the worst and meanest kind of hypocrisy, we have yet to 
learn what is." (10) 



266

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1519 - 1524 

POLITICS &amp; GOVERNMENT - United States (Cont'd) 

1519 - H Dec. 31; ed:2/2 - The Hon. John C. Calhoun is once again at his 
seat in the U. S. Senate. We have not forgotten the error he committed 
when, at the Memphis convention, he supported General Jackson and told 
the southerners that the tariff was injurious to their interests. But 
that was only one mistake in a lifetime of service; and, as Henry Clay 
once said, it would not be wise to cast away an old rifle when, after 
years of faithful service, it fails once to fire properly. 

"The annunciation of this gentleman resuming a seat in the Senate of 
the U. S. gives much satisfaction to all old enough to remember his 
patriotic labors in the House of Representatives and in the Department 

of War We feel that the peace and prosperity of the country are 

safer since he is in the Senate." (8) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion; Bank &amp; Banking; City Government; Commerce; Courts; Foreign Relations; Political Campaigns &amp; Elections; Political Parties; Post Office; Postal Service; Taxation; United States Territories &amp; Possessions; specific issues and subjects of legislation 

POPULATION. See Census &amp; Population 

POST OFFICE 

1520 • H Mar. 19; ed:3/1 - The postmaster general has appointed Col. 
John Bigler of Pittsburgh as special agent of the post office department, 
in place of Job. G. Patterson, who has resigned. 

"Col. B. (every office-holder is a Colonel) was formerly connected 
with the Pittsburgh Post Office." (1) 

1521 - H Apr. 7:3/1 - The City Post Office has been removed to-day to the 
four story building West of Water street, and will be opened for the 
delivery of letters and papers at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1522 - H Apr. 16; ed:3/l - T. J. McLain, Esq., has been removed from the 
office of postmaster at Warren, and John W. Collins, Esq., appointed. 

"Mr. McLain was formerly a great Jackson-Van Buren man, but embraced 
Tylerism for the sake of office. Served right." (1) 

1523 - H Apr. 16; ed:3/l - Colonel T. P. Spencer has received the appoint- 
ment of postmaster of Cleveland in place of B. Andrews, Esq., removed. 
"Col. Spencer has been a consistent and active Jackson-Van Buren-Polk 
Democrat; has labored zealously to promote the interests of that party 

as former publisher of the leading Democratic Journal on the Reserve - 
is entitled to, and now has, his reward. So much may be said politically. 
"In common with our fellow-citizens of all parties, we cordially award 
to Mr. Andrews the credit of having well and satisfactorily conducted 
the affairs of the Cleveland Post Office during his administration." (5) 

1524 - H June 3:3/1 - George Rathborne has been appointed postmaster at 
Newburgh in place of E. Miles, removed. (verbatim) (1) 



267

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1525 - 1531 

POST OFFICE (Cont'd) 

1525 - H July 2:3/1 - Pleasant Charge Of Occupation. - Mr. Geo. C. Dodge, 
who for the past three years has officiated as chief clerk in the city 
post offire to the entire satisfaction of all transactirg business there, 
exchanged his responsible and slavish post on Monday for the less onerous 
and rn^re agreeable employments of his pleasant grounds on Strawberry Hill, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1526 - H July 16; ed:2/2 - The decision of the post master general, that 
deputy post master shall be paid the same as last year, will doubtless put a 
stop to further resignations and give fresh work for the decapitating 
guillotine, which is now doing a pretty extensive business among country 

P. M. *s. (verbatim) (1) 

1527 - H July 16:2/2 - We understand that Mr. D. S. Lyon has been appointed 
post master at Strongsville, 0., vice W. Strong, Esq. (verbatim) (1) 

1528 - H July 21:3/1 - Mr. William J. Case has been appointed post master 
at Brooklyn, Cuyahoga Co., 0., in place of Francis Fuller, resigned, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1529 - H Sept. 4:3/1 - Daniel Christy, Esq., has been removed from the 
office of post master at Willoughby, and James Hunt, Esq., appointed in 

his place. (verbatim) (1) 

1530 - H Sept. 18; ed:3/l - By a recent letter from Col. Medill, of the 
general post office, it is ordered that all letters to deputy postmasters 
rjot prepaid and not on official business, must be returned to the depart- 
ment as dead letters, unanswered and unopened, if known to be of a private 
nature. The Colonel probably takes all his deputies to be clairvoyants, 

as they are to know the contents of unopened letters. (verbatim) (1) 

H Dec. 11; ed:3/l - See Newspapers 

POSTAL SERVICE 

1531 - H Feb. 13; ed:3/l - The bill reducing the rates of postage, and 
modifying the franking privilege, passed the Senate on Feb. 8. Judging 
from the strong vote and the obliteration of party lines on the bill in 
the Senate, there is a fair prospect that the same will pass the House 
and become a law. 

''The people have everywhere demanded cheap postages and the experiment 
should at once be tried." The bill continues the free exchange of news- 
papers between publishers, now enjoyed, and continues the franking privi- 
lege to the President of the U. S. while in office, all the ex-presidents, 
and to the widows of ex-presidents Madison and Harrison. 

"It is Earnestly to be hoped that the bill may find favor in the House 
and become a law. It is a good time to try the experiment of cheap postages, 
and if the operation of the new law should for a few years so reduce the 
revenue of the department as to throw a portion of its expenses upon the 
common Treasury, there is every prospect that the present Tariff will 
easily make good the deficit." (18) 



268

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1532 - 1536 

POSTAL SERVICE (Cont'd) 

1532 - H Feb. 17:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: 
Having noticed with pleasure the decisive vote in the U. S. Senate, re- 
ducing the postage on all letters not exceeding half an ounce to five 
cents, I wish to call the attention of the public and Congress to some 
further improvements before the bill becomes a law. Why should the 
President, the secretaries of war, of the navy, state, and treasury, -.tj 
transport their immense luggage free of charge on postage? 

"Strike off at once this unjust favoritism, this basely abused privi- 
lege of franking, and friends and relations, under reduced postage, would 
derive great satisfaction and advantage in their social communication • 
information would be disseminated - every letter would improve the taste 
and talent of the writer, particularly in youth; thus science and happiness 
would be promoted." (7) 

1533 - H Feb. 26; ed:3/l - We hear regrets expressed on all sides that 
the House has not promptly passed the bill from the Senate reducing the 
rates of postage. Want of time to perfect a good law will not be taken 
as sufficient excuse, for the Senate bill is far preferable to the present 
exorbitant and unequal post office system. 

"A cheap, people's post office is demanded." (2) 

1534 - H Mar. 6; ed:3/l - The Senate, on Mar. 1, perfected the great 
measure for the reduction of postage, so far as the sanction of Congress 
is concerned. 

"The House amendments to the Senate Bill were agreed to by a decisive 
vote, and we trust the bill has received the signature of the President 
ere this." (2) 

1535 - H Apr. 22:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Zeror" says: "On the 
1st day of July, one of the most important measures ever enacted in the 

U. S. will take effect - The Cheaper Postage Law. It will strengthen the 
ties of consanguinity, fan the flames of affection, develop the scintilla- 
tions of genius, quicken the languid pulsations of benevolent societies, 
annihilate space between friends, and illuminate our happy land with in- 
telligence and commercial and social intercourse. 

"Let there be then, on the preceding night, from end to end, and from 
ocean to ocean, one unanimous, grand illumination, through the length and 
breadth of this Republic. 

"What sav you, Mr. Editor? Will you second the motion by printing the 
proposition? If so, let every Editor who approves the plan say aye. Let 
the proposition go forth, its origin unmentioned, and a grateful nation 
will proclaim its gratitude." (5) 

1536 - H May 29:3/1 - We are under obligations to Mr. Sanford, clerk of ■ -.-. 
the CONSTITUTION, captain Whittaker of the UNITED STATES, and Mr. ' 
Hartings, clerk of the CLEVELAND for eastern papers in advance of the 
mail. (verbatim) (1) 



269

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1537 - 1542 

POSTAL SERVICE (Cont'd) 

1537 - H June 10:2/2 - We publish a list of the post offices to which, 
according to the new postage law, papers published in Cleveland are en- 
titled to go free of postage: 

Cuyahoga county - Barry, Brecksville, Coe Ridge, Euclid, Mayfield, 
N. Royalton, Parma, Strongsville, Bedford, Brooklyn, Dover, Gates Mills, 
Newburgh, Ohio City, Rockport, Warrensville, Berea, Chagrin Falls, East 
Euclid, Independence, North Dover, Olmsted and Solon. 

Postoffices in Lake, Portage, Geauga, Summit, Medina, and Lorain 
counties have the same privilege. (4) 

1538 - H June 28:2/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, "Dime" says: Our 
legislators have seen fit to grant what the "sovereign people" have long 
sued for in vain. In a few days our prospective law reducing the price 
of postage goes into effect; and now let us give Uncle Sam convincing 
proof that we, the citizens of Cleveland, at least appreciate the good 
work done in our behalf. 

"The mere saving to the community, in dollars and cents, by the new 
postage system, is among the most trifling results consequent upon the 
reduction." (5) 

1539 • H July 17:3/1 - Our thanks to Captain Whittaker of the UNITED 
STATES and Mr. Gibson, clerk of the EMPIRE, for late eastern papers. 

Our friends of the Buffalo COMMERCIAL are doing their subscribers 
here excellent service by forwarding their valuable journal by the 
Chicago boats. It is thus received from 15 to 20 hours in advance of 
the mail. (verbatim) (2) 

1540 • H July 18; ed:3/l - Before the new postal laws went into effect 
there was no method of ascertaining the cost of the postal service re- 
quired by the various departments of the government. With the law now 
in operation it has been found that during the first nine days of the 
present month the postage charged to the government was $15,724. 

"This fact serves to illustrate the injustice of the old system, which 
levied onerous taxes, in the shape of high postage, on the people, and 
on the mercantile portion of it especially, to pay the post office depart- 
ment for services rendered to the general government gratis." (4) 

1541 - H Aug. 5; ed:2/l - We learn by an article in the Washington 
CONSTITUTIONALIST that the revenue of the postoffice department, under 
the new law, has greatly fallen off, as compared with the corresponding 
periods in 1844. In few of the offices heard from has the diminution in 
receipts been less than one third. 

"It was expected that there would be a falling off at first, but it is 
necessary that the experiment should have a full and fair trial before a 
judgment as to its ultimate results can be formed." (2) 

1542 - H Aug. 8; ed:3/l - Captain Robertson of the go ahead propeller 
SAMSON politely sent us up the Buffalo PILOT yesterday in advance of 
the mail. 



270

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1543 - 1548 

POSTAL SERVICE (Cont'd) 

Unless the combination bring along the mail more regularly than of 
late, we should think a change to the propellers would be advantageous. 
The Buffalo mail yesterday did not arrive till about three o'clock, and 
no sign of it today at two p.m. (verbatim) (1) 

1543 • H Aug. 14; ed:2/2 - The decrease in the postal receipts at 
Baltimore since the initiation of the lower postal rates has been not 
quite 50 per cent, while the number of letters sent has greatly increased. 
In other localities reports concur with the above. 

"Altogether, the operation of the law is favorable to the cheap 
postage system, and its results in the first months are as satisfactory 
as was expected." (4) 

1544 - H Sept. 8; ed:2/l - Post office department figures show receipts *^. ' 
from stamp sales have gone down under the new law considerably. For 
example, in New York, the receipts were $5,500 under the old provisions, 
and $3,000 under the new law. 

"What effect this will have upon the new law it is impossible to say." 

(4) 

1545 - H Oct. 3; ed:3/l - The irregularity of the mail from the West of 
Detroit is very annoying. It would seem that the Detroit P. M. knows 
no shorter route to Cleveland than via Buffalo. Cannot the matter be 

done up right? (verbatim) (1) 

1546 - H Nov. 17; ed:2/l - Under the operation of the present cheap 
postage law, it is ascertained that the receipts of the department will 
fall considerable short of meeting its expenditures, and fears are ex- 
pressed that an effort will be made by the coming Congress to establish 
higher rates. The southern members will likely be in favor of high rates, 
as the cheap postage system makes the discontinuance of a portion of 
their non-paying mail routes necessary. 

"We do not think it probable that Congress will sanction a return to 
high rates of postage. The advantages of the present system are felt 
very sensibly; the people will not consent to give them up. The National 
Treasury has abundant means; it has sources of revenue much more available 
and far less vexatious than the postage tax. The country, we doubt not, 
will prefer to let the existing arrangement alone." (6) 

See also Post Office - ' 

PRINTING &amp; PUBLISHING 

1547 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, the clerk 
was instructed to have the public printing done through the columns of 

the PLAIN DEALER. (1) 

1548 - H June 3; ed:3/l - Colonel Peet has rendered our citizens a 
valuable service by compiling and publishing a much needed general busi*''"- 
ness directory of Cleveland and other cities of Ohio for the years 1845-6 
together with a historical and statistical account. 



271

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1549 - 1553 

PRINTING &amp; PUBLISHING (Cont'd) 

"The Directory has been got up with great care and labor, and we 
trust the publisher will be liberally remunerated. Every citizen should 
have a copy, for the Directory contains much information of interest to 
every person, and not to be obtained elsewhere without considerable 
attention and trouble. Our business men will consult their own inter- 
ests and the interests of the city, by giving the Directory wide circu- 
lation among their correspondents." (9) 

1549 - H July 1; adv:3/5 • Smead and Cowles, No. 16 Central Buildings, 
job printers. Partnership just formed, new type, new material just 
purchased. Will supply printing in style and beauty which cannot be 
surpassed in the Western country. T. H. Smead and E. Cowles. (3) 

1550 - H July 7; adv:2/5 - Improved Iron Copying Press, With Screw and 
Lever combined. The utility of the Copying Press is now generally known 
to the Accountant and Merchant for copying letters, accounts, &amp;c. They 
are invaluable, possessing the advantage of a most perfect copy without 
the time required by the old method of writing, so necessary when there 
is not sufficient time to write a copy of the letter, &amp;c. 

These presses are most simple in their operation. - They may stand 
on the desk or table and require no fixing. The copy may be taken in a 
book or a loose sheet. The time required to take a copy of one or more 
letters, &amp;c. is about one minute. 

For sale, wholesale and retail by Wm. S. Craig, River st., Cleveland, 
Ohio. Wanted - 4 or 5 men to work at Iron Railing, none but those accus- 
tomed to making railing need apply, W. S. C, (verbatim) (2) 

1551 - n July 31:3/1 - In speaking of perseverance and industry, a New 
London, Conn., paper cites the case of Luther Severance, Horace Greeley, 
and James Harper, who rose from mere printer's aides to high positions 

in Congress and in the newspaper and publishing business through hard 
Work. "So much for energy and industry." (3) 

1552 - H Aug. 26; adv:3/4,5 - Steam Power Press. The subscriber has 
aided to his Book and Printing Office Adams New Patent Power Press which 
gives him facilities for doing printing work unsurpassed anywhere in the 
county. 

Cards, Bill Heads, Drafts, Checks, Shipping Bills, Circulars, Receipts, 
&amp;c. Printed to Order. M. C. Younglove, American House. (9) 

1553 • H Aug. 28; ed:2/2 - J. F. Kimball and Company are about to publish 
a directory and register for Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. This register 

is to contain all information relative to the business in each county, and 
the names of county officials, lawyer-^, merchants, and principal business 
men. Copies of the directory shall be on hand in every county in these 
three states. 

"One of these gentlemen is now in this city, and we have no doubt he 
will meet the success he desires." (3) 

See also Newspapers 



272

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1554 - 1556 

PLACEHOLDER

PUBLIC AUCTIONS. See Auctions &amp; Auctioneers 

PUBLIC SQUARES &amp; CIRCLES 

1554 • H Feb. 28:2/3 ■ In a letter to the editor, "Q" says: Will you 
call the attention of our worthy mayor to the fact that men and boys 
have been for some days past in the habit of assembling on the Public 
Square for ball playing, thus destroying the turf and preventing the 
growing of grass. 

"The Square is justly the pride and ornament of our city, and perhaps 
a word is sufficient to demonstrate the impropriety of disfiguring it in 
any way." (2) 

1555 - H May 28:3/2 - Mr. Harris: - We wish to inquire through your daily 
paper, if the street supervisor or his deputy has been east of Bank street 
the present season, and if so, why did they not pay a little attention 
to those beautiful shade trees on the Public Square, that the whole pub- 
lic have so great an interest in, and not have suffered some ten or 
twelve of those fine Mnple t^ees to be lost through neglect, for the want 
of a little watering and digging around, as they have had years past at 
a trifling expense? Friends of Public Square. (verbatim) (2) 

1556 - H Aug. 27; ed:3/l - Some care has been this summer given to water- 
ing our young shade trees upon the public square. A glance at their con- 
dition at this time will convince any one that they require now as much 
attention as they have at any time this season. We would suggest that 
coarse chip dirt or half decayed leaves be procured and put around them, 
say four feet each away from the body, after loosening the earth, then, by 
once watering them thoroughly, no farther (sic) attention will be neces- 
sary either this year or the next. (verbatim) (2) 



273

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1557 - 1562 

PLACEHOLDER

RAILROADS 

1557 - H Jan. 6:3/1 - Mr. Aten has introduced a bill in the state legis- 
lature to revive and amend the act to incorporate the Cleveland and 
Pittsburgh railroad. The bill appoints commissioners who are authorized 
to open books for receiving subscriptions to the capital stock of the 
company and provides that the road shall commence at Cleveland and ter- 
minate at Wellsville. Construction is to be started within two years 
after the passing of the act and is to be completed within 20 years from 

the time it is started or the act becomes null and void. (3) 

1558 - H Jan. 11:3/1 - The project of establishing railroad communication 
between Cleveland and some point on the Ohio river is one that had engaged 
the attention of capitalists before the depression in Cleveland's monetary 
system which paraljzed the city for a short time. Meetings are being held 
and everywhere there is unanimous approbation of the proposed line. 

A meeting was held in Salem the other day at which the citizens of that 
town pledged their co-operation with Cleveland in bringing about the suc- 
cessful completion of the work. (4) 

1559 - II Feb. 10:3/1 - Mr. Wonlsey introduced a bill in the Ohio house on 
Feb. 5 to incorporate the Cuyahoga and Columbiana railroad which is to 
commence at Cleveland and terminate at Wellsville. 

On Feb. 7, the house passed the bill to revive and amend the act to 
incorporate the Cleveland and Pittsburgh railroad. (1) 

1560 - H Fe'o. 22:3/1 - A bill has passed the House to incorporate the 
Cleveland an"! Hudson Railroad Company. 

The bill was amended so that before tlje Company shall enter upon any 
land to procure materials for said road, they shall first give security 
to the satisfaction of the owners for the payment of damages. When will 
the road be constructed, and who will furnish the funds? (verbatim) (2) 

1561 - H Mar. 3:3/2 - The bill to revive and amend the act incorporating 
the Cleveland and Pittsburgh railroad which passed the house the other 
day has resulted, we are informed, in the amending of the title so as to 
read, Cuyahoga and Columbus Railroad co. (1) 

1562 - H Mar. 11:3/1 - From Columbus - Extract of a letter dated Mar. 8, 
1845: The bill to revive the charter of the Cleveland and Pittsburgh 
Railroad co., as amended by the committee of conference of the two houses, 
has received its final passage this afternoon and is now a law. It is now 
a very griod charter. 

The bill to revive the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad co. 
passed the house of representatives day before yesterday and is now be- 
fore the senate. It is also much improved in some points from the old 
charter, and will pass the senate by Tuesday. (Mar. 19) It will enable 
Cleveland to draw the rich produce of Richland and Wayne to her own 
markets. No day fixed for adjournment yet. (verbatim) (3) 



274

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1563 - 1567 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

1563 - H Apr. 10; ed:3/l - The CHIO STATESMAN announces that a consider- 
able amount of stock in the Columbus and Xenia railroad has been taken up - 
perhaps sufficient to complete the road, and expresses the hope that it will 
be put under contract at once. 

"Columbus and Cincinnati will ere long be bound together by an iron 
link, and is it not true interest of Cleveland, and the country along the 
route, to take measures to add another link which shall connect the Queen 
City and the Capitol of the State with the Lake at this point?" (2) 

1564 - H Apr. 15; ed:2/l - Things in this age are progressive, and he who 
adheres to the stand-still policy will soon be left alone. We have the 
canal to bring other channels of communication with the interior. If we 
want to bring additional business to us, we must get good roads of some 
sort east and west of the canal route, and if we effect this we can con- 
tinue to preserve our relative importance and indefinitely increase it. 

Let a railroad be built from Cleveland to Mansfield to connect with the 
road from there to Columbus. This will give us our share of business from 
the center and south as is rightfully due us. We ought to be represented 
in the proposed convention at Mansfield, and we hope the commissioners 
named for this county will attend it. (18) 

1565 - H Apr. 23; ed:3/l - There will be a meeting of the railroad com- 
missioners of the proposed Cleveland and Pittsburgh railroad at Ravenna 
on Apr. 25. Samuel Starkweather, J. W. Allen, Charles Brodburn, Irod 
Kelley, Philo Scovill, Thomas Bolton, and Samuel Williamson are the local 
representatives and to them we say: "Are you ready? The enterprise is a 
very important one to us all. We hope you will be on the spot, to aid in 
giving a right direction to it at the beginning." (2) 

1566 - H Apr. 26:3/1 • Meeting of the commissioners of the Cleveland, 
Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad co. at Mansfield on Thursday next. 
(Apr. 31) Commissioners from Cuyahoga county are John W. Allen, 
Philo Scovill, Richard HiUiard, Irad Kelley, Truman P. Handy, and 
Horatio N. Ward. 

The public hope these gentlemen will remember this meeting and attend 
one and all. (verbatim) (2) 

1567 - H Apr. 29:2/1,2 - In an anonymous letter to the editor, the writer 
says: As the subject of a railroad to Cleveland is agitating the minds of 
our citiiicns, you will oblige me, and possibly be of some service to them 
and to the country, by permitting me to occupy a small portion of your 
paper in stating a few facts, and in miking a suggestion or two. 

There is no town on the lake shore west of Buffalo as central for busi- 
ness as Cleveland; but in these days of "go ahead," we cannot expect to 
retain our natural advantages without some exertions. If our capitalists 
stand by and will not give us the benefit of their wisdom and experience, 
and shall withhold their wealth from the construction of railroads to this 
city, they will ultimately regret their decision. It is now in the power 
of Cleveland to insure not only the commencement, but the ultimate comple* 
tion of a railroad from this place to the Illinois river. Capitalists 



275

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1568 - 1571 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

will be attracted by the many inducements offered by the route from 

Toledo to the Illinois. 

Cleveland occupies too important a position to sport with it, or with 
the times she is called upon to act. Her decision will affect her destiny 
for years, if not forever, and she should act with reference to what the 
west is to be, and that at no distant day. (20) 

1568 - H May 6:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Chenango" says: By 
reference to the proceedings of the railroad commissioners' meeting at 
Mansfield you will see that they have selected the line ending in Cleve- 
land in preference to either of the others, one of which contemplated a 
junction with the M ^d River road 40 or 50 miles south of Sandusky, and 
which is a very feasible route, while the other would have been a con- 
nection with the Mansfield road. 

"The people of Columbus and North of it are determined to have a Rail 
Road communication with the Lake somewhere, and most of them would pre- 
fer its termination at Cleveland." (9) 

1569 - H May 6:3/1 - We refer our readers to the proceedings of the meet- 
ing of the railroad commissioners at Mansfield and the letter of "Chenango" 
and would urge upon all the great importance of following up the first 
steps, now so favorably taken, by liberal, efficient, and prompt action. 
Books for subscription to the stock are to be opened, and the citizens of 
Cleveland should not so disregard their own interests as to suffer the 
golden opportunity to pass unimproved. (verbatim) (2) 

1570 - H May 7:2/2 - In a letter to the editor. "Cleveland City" says: 
Your paper of yesterday contained the proceedings of the railroad commis- 
sioners' meeting at Mansfield and the letter of your correspondent relat- 
ing to those proceedings. Your correspondent no doubt desires to pro- 
mote the growth of Cleveland. If the road to Columbus through Mansfield 
were built, and the road from Columbus to Springfield or Xenia were also 
built, this city would derive some advantage. But admitting the advantage, 
the first question is whether such a road will enlist capital. "If it will 
not, we must turn "our attention elsewhere. I have no disposition to dis- 
courage enterprises of this sort, but discretion is never more necessary 
than in planning works whose future prospects are not the subject of 
demonstration." (12) 

1571 - H May 13:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: I have 
read and thoroughly weighed the arguments set forth in the communication 
of Elisha Whittlesey, Esq., on the subject of a railroad extending west- 
ward and nearly parallel with the south shore of Lake Erie and connecting 
with the Mad River railroad near Sandusky. Although I highly approve of 
many of the propositions set forth, I think he misjudges the interest of 
our city in the direction of the road. 

"If we are to have only one Westerly road, I think it can be demon- 
strated that it should lead directly from Cleveland into the rich and great 
wheat growing. Central counties of Ohio, and it fortunately happens that 



276

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1572 • 1574 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

this route leads direct to Columbus and Cincinnati. A large amount of 
travel would thus be transported upon this road, to and from Cleveland, 
thereby sustaining the road and lessening the price of transporting our 
provisions and merchandise." (12) 

1572 - H May 14:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Cleveland City" says: 
The first question I want to ask the supporters of the Mansfield route 
is - can the stock be taken? If not, then the matter is at an end. If 
the answer is yes, who will take it amounting to $1,500,000? This ques- 
tion settled, we can discuss the comparative profits of the two routes. 
On this point the people want some statistics to prove that travel "is of 
comparatively small importance to the produce business which a good rail- 
road would bring to our city." To show that the Mansfield road will 
introduce into this place more provisions than the Ohio canal, "we want 
some facts, too, that will demonstrate how a railroad to Mansfield and 
Columbus will bring the produce of Richland, Marion, Knox, Delaware, and 
Crawford Counties, with a portion of Huron, Lorain, Medina, and Wayne, to 
Cleveland City." (10) 

1573 - H May 21:2/2 - The Wellsville PATRIOT says: "We understand • . 
that the entire route of the Cleveland and Wellsville Railroad is to be 
surveyed in the course of a few weeks. From the interest taken in the 
grand object by capitalists, we have no hesitation in stating, as our 
belief, that the work will be commenced this fall or early next spring, 

and speedily completed." (verbatim) (1) 

1574 - H May 23:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: I be- 
lieve I feel as deeply interested in the welfare of Cleveland as any of 
those gentlemen who would enlighten the public on the subject of roads. 

I would as soon steal money from their pockets, as to deceive them inten- 
tionally. My friend "Cleveland City" appears to flutter a little and 
asks many questions; and as some of them are very proper, I will endeavor 
to answer as well as the nature of the case will admit. 

The length of the contemplated railroad to Columbus will depend upon 
the route taken. The distance on a straight line is 130 miles, but it is 
more expensive to construct a road straight than by avoiding hills and 
ravines, thereby increasing the distance, but lessening the expense. 

If every householder in Cleveland would take $100 worth of stock in 
this road, they would receive more than the interest annually. 

In the winter, when farmers are best prepared to market their produce, 
this road would accomodate them. Cleveland would then receive from 
central Ohio daily from two to 6,000 bushels of wheat, from one to 4,000 
barrels of flour, and other articles in proportion. Respecting passengers, 
I admit they help to defray expenses, and thereby lessen the price of freight. 

"I sincerely wish the best route adopted, and something done, after the 
citizens of Cleveland are fully persuaded. I ask for truth and reason only 
to prevail. Then let every man put his shoulder to the wheel, and if it 
does not move, I will guarantee Hercules will assist." (18) 



277

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1575 - 1578 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

1575 - H May 27:2/1 • In a letter to the editor, one of the commissioners 
says: "I have observed two communications in your paper over the signa- 
ture of 'Cleveland City' to which 'A Farmer' has made some reply; and I 
will add a little to what he has said, with your permission. And I will 
here say, that though I differ from the first as to location of the route, 

I have no doubt he desires, as I do, that one should be selected which is 
not only most likely to be built, but which shall add most to the business 
and prosperity of this city." 

Our object is to bring both men and things, passengers and property, 
to this point. It is not one, but both that we want; and in my opinion, 
in the language once used by Mr. Van Buren, if we "penetrate the interior" 
we shall fully accomplish our purpose. (15) 

1576 - H June 2:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Commissioner of Both 
Roads" says: The books for subscription to the stock of the Cleveland and 
Pittsburgh railroad are to be opened this day. I long have been, now am, 
and ever shall be exceedingly anxious to see this project effected, and I 
have great confidence that it will be, but with this feeling I think it is 
best that some prudence should be combined. We cannot do very much here 
at this time for either of the contemplated projects, but if we attempt to 
carry on both, the presumption is that the division of our efforts will 
result in the defeat of both. My view then is that we should defer action 
on that one that may be safely postponed and direct all our exertions to- 
ward the one that cannot be so postponed, and the success of it will of 
necessity work the success of the other. As a firm, undeniable friend of 
the Pittsburgh road as well as of the other, I would advise this course. 

(7) 

1577 - H June 7; ed:2/l - Our friend, the Wooster DEMOCRAT, objects to our 
intimation that the Loudonville hills render the Wooster and Mount Vernon 
route impracticable for a railroad and declare it to be a well-known fact 
that there are valleys as level and as favorable for the construction of 

a railroad between those points as on any other route from Cleveland to 
Columbus, and far less circuitous than some other routes which the Cleve- 
landers seem so anxious to adopt. 

"We are glad to see the DEMOCRAT rousing the people of Wayne to the 
importance of earnestly engaging in the work of internal improvements. 
That rich County can do much, if she will." (3) 

1578 - H June 13:2/1 • In a letter to the editor, "Along the Shore" says: 

I have noticed in your paper several articles concerning the proposed rail- 
road and different routes from Cleveland to Columbus and Cincinnati. As 
this is a matter in which we along the shore feel some interest, will you 
allow me to offer some reasons in favor of the lake shore or northern route? 
By the northern route there are no hills or obstacles in the way of con- 
struction, a very considerable part of the grading has been done between 
Cleveland and the Maumee river, and many piles driven, all of which might 
be made available in the construction of the new road. I am convinced 
this route can be built cheaper, can be run in or near the same time and 
at least expense than the southern route. 



278

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1579 - 1581 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

Cleveland has an enviable position in either case, and may continue to 
keep the high stand she has now attained in commerce and trade by rightly 
directing her energies and judiciously applying her means. 

"The section of country S(;uth from Huron or Sandusky to Mansfield, Mt. 
Vernon and Newark, between the Canal and the Lake shore, she is sure of, 
either by the Canal or by the Rail Road, if the Northern route is pursued, 
besides the immense travel from these lines of Rail Road will soon be ex- 
tended West across the Peninsula of Michigan to Chicago, and from thence 
West no one knows where, unless it be Mr. Whitney; and would not this be 
a bright link in the chain, think you?" (10) 

1579 - H June 20:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: Cleve- 
land is perhaps as deeply interested in the subject of railroads as any 
other place in Ohio. It is only necessary for her citizens to see their 
true interest to embrace it. Much has been said verbally and through the 
press. The general assembly has renewed charters, and made new ones, for 
roads of nearly all descriptions and in almost every direction. Now is the 
time to act. The books for subscriptions are now open at the office of T. 
P. Handy, Esq., for the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad, and 
at the office of the Firemen's Insurance co. for the Cleveland and Ohio 
railroad. 

"Sufficient stock must be taken to organize the companies, and twenty- 
five thousand dollars is the least amount that can be expected to start 
with from Cleveland. This is only half of the sum authorized by the law 
authorizing our city to borro-y for the Wooster plank road. If this trifling 
sum cannot be subscribed here, with what force can we ask those vastly 
less interested to subscribe?" (8) 

1580 - H June 21; ed:2/l - The St. Lawrence and Atlantic railroad, an im- 
portant one, will be built, for the Yankees and Canucks have willed it. 

Books are to be opened at Montreal and Quebec, and the governor general 
has written to the home secretary urging him to lay the subject before the 
ministry. (3) 

1581 • H July 5; ed:2/l ♦ Mr. Whitney, the projector of the stupendous 
scheme of a railroad from Lake Michigan to the Pacific ocean, arrived at 
Chicago on June 13, accompanied by several young men from the east who 
will go with him on his route of exploration. 

To build the road, Mr. Whitney asks the government for a grant of public 
lands, 60 miles wide along the route, or 30 miles on each side of the road 
from point to point, the proceeds of this land to constitute the fund for 
building the road. The proposed grant would include about 92,000,000 
acres. The cost of the road is estimated at $20,000 per mile, making the 
entire cost about $50,000,000. 

Mr. Whitney's plan was submitted to the last Congress, but no specific 
action was taken. 

"Mr. Whitney will personally explore the route from Lake Michigan to 
the vicinity of the Rocky Mountains before the next session of Congress, 
and will probably again bring the scheme before the body, accompanied 
by such facts in regard to it as the exploration will furnish." (15) 



279

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1582 - 1585 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

1582 - H July 9; ed:3/l - Canton citizens are enthused over a railroad 
movement originating in that town, with the purpose in view to connect 
the Ohio river and the lake. A survey has been made from Canton to 
Akron. From Akron northward, a company called the Cleveland and Hudson, 
was chartered last winter; thus a road may be built from Cleveland to the 
Ohio river. However, the scheme of reaching the river by this route has 
not been considered here seriously. Instead, local sentiment has been in 
favor of a route via Ravenna to Wellsville toward which plan $25,000 has 
already been subscribed in Cleveland. Still another route is the pro- 
posed southwestern one through Cincinnati. These latter two, if completed, 
will place Cleveland on a strong commercial basis and will probably spell 

a 10,000 increase in population here. 

The Canton and Akron route is longer than the Ravenna and Wellsville 
route by ten miles, (7) 

H July 16; ed:2/2 • See Commerce 

1583 - H July 22:3/1 - Cleveland and Columbus Railroad - The Delaware 
GAZETTE of the 18th states that about $24,000 of stock has been taken 
in Delaware county conditionally - about $1,800 positively - and that the 
committee of correspondence consisting of H. Williams, S. Finch, and B. 
Powers of Delaware are authorized to call a meeting for the purpose of 
organizing the company as soon as they shall receive information of $50,000 
of the capital stock having been positively subscribed. Sufficient returns 
have not been received from the places at which books were opened to sat- 
isfy the committee that this amount has been subscribed. (verbatim) (2) 

1584 - H July 23; ed:3/2 - The committee of commissioners of the proposed 
Cleveland and Columbus railroad have no more information concerning sub- 
scriptions showing the progress of this venture than those made at Delaware. 

"The difficulty we suspect is, that although notice of subscriptions 
was given to the Committee in a mode supposed to be sufficient, yet that it 
was not in such official shape as to authorize them to count them. This 
objection we presume can and will be readily obviated." (3) 

1585 - H July 25:2/2 - At a meeting of the commissioners of the Cleveland 
and Pittsburgh railroad at Ravenna yesterday, Cyrus Prentiss was appointed 
chairman and John W. Allen, secretary. It was resolved that as the amount 
of stock necessary to be subscribed in order to authorize the organization 
of the company was not yet obtained, a special committee be appointed to 
solicit further subscriptions at such times and places as the committee 
may deem expedient, and that A. G. Catlett, James Stewart, Zadock Street, 
Cyrus Prentiss, and John W. Allen be that committee. It was also resolved 
that said committee be empowered to employ a competent engineer to survey 
the territory as soon as practicable, and that Joseph J. Brooks, Esq., of 
Columbiana county be appointed a commissioner in place of Dr. George Mc- 
Cook, resigned. (5) 



280

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1586 - 1589 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

1586 - H July 30; ed:3/l - We are glad to learn that there is a probability 
of companies being formed within a few weeks for the construction of a 
railroad hence to Columbus and Cincinnati and to Wellsville and Pitts- 
burgh. These roads would be of incalculable advantage to the country 
through which they would pass, and especially to this city. The com- 
missioners on the Pittsburgh route, in anticipation of the regular organ- 
ization of the company, have made an arrangement with Colonel Dodge by 
which several lines will be explored so minutely as to enable the company 
to determine the general route and the probable expense of construction. 

"Of one thing, we of the Lake City may be assured, that if we sit with 
folded arms, content with such advantages as we now have, we may find when 
it is too late that Miama Extension Canals and Mad River Rail Roads have 
not only most materially diminished our ability to go ahead, but even to 
hold on to what we now think we have a right." (9) 

1587 - H July 31; ed:2/3 - A few years ago a company was chartered to build 
a railroad from Sandusky to Monroeville. The road was constructed, but 

not in a very substantial manner. There was a good deal of business done 
upon it, but at a heavy expense. The stock decreased in value and the 
road was finally sold by the state for its lien, although it took stock 
to the amount of its claim under the new charter. Since then, perfect 
confidence has been felt, not only in the speedy completion of the road 
and in the liberal profits to be realized by the enterprising stockholders, 
but in the great advantages to be derived by extending so valuable a work 
more than 50 miles into one of the most fertile portions of the state. 
By Sept. 1 it is expected that the road will be completed. 

"Our Sandusky neighbors may well congratulate themselves on the result 
of their enterprise. It shows what may be effected by a few individuals 
of some means and more enterprise.... If the citizens of Sandusky, not 
numbering a third of our population, can build one road and materially aid 
in building another, what can the citizens of Cleveland do towards the 
roads about which they are talking?" (10) 

1588 - H Aug. 1; ed:2/l - Measures are being taken to secure subscriptions 
amounting to $300,000 for the construction of a 55 mile railroad between 
Xenia and Columbus. Cincinnati citizens are already subscribing, realiying 
the need of such a line. 

"This is an important link in the iron road in which our citizens are 
deeply interested, for unless we would lag behind in the race of pros- 
perity, Cleveland and Cincinnati must eventually be united by railroad 
communication. We earnestly ask our capitalists to emulate the spirit and 
enterprise of Columbus and Cincinnati in urging forward the 'consummation 
devoutly to be wished.'" (4) 

1589 - H Aug. 4; ed:3/2 - A survey of the proposed railroad from Akron to 
Canton has been made, and according to Civil Engineer White, the cost of 
the 22-1/2 mile line will be $127,067.07, or $5,647.42 per mile. Mr. 



281

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1590 • 1592 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

White calculates that the yearly freight and passenger receipts will 

bring a profit of seven per cent on the investment. 

"The route is very feasible, and the work becomes one of no little 
importance to Cleveland, as it is not only intended, says the report, 
for a road from Canton to Akron, but is a link in a contemplated road 
from the Ohio River to Lake Erie, which will connect with the Baltimore 
and Ohio Rail Road at Wheeling." (7) 

1590 - H Aug. 8:2/1 - In a letter to the editor. "M.S." of Buffalo says: 
Allow a travelling New Yorker to give some results of his observations 
in Ohio. When I left New York my intention was to go to Cleveland and 
thence to Columbus and Cincinnati, but unfortunately your city's lack of 
railroad facilities kLpt me away and I failed to see your much-heralded 
town. 

"Now, Mr. Editor, I take it for granted that a place like Cleveland, 
famed as one of the most beautiful and desirable in the country, with 
such enterprising inhabitants as I know you have, with such a commerce 
and such capabilities of improvement, owning some of the finest vessels 
on the Lake and the most magnificent steamboat on fresh water in the 
worll, will not permit herself to be surrounded, as she will soon be 
almost, by the improvements extending from rival towns to the River, 
diverting from you travel and commerce which, all things being equal, 
would naturally seek your town, without doing something in her own de- 
fense. If you were required to build a railroad from Cleveland to Cin- 
cinnati, to compete with that from Sandusky thither, (saying nothing of 
the Minsfield road) 1 suppose that you would not hesitate to make the 
attempt at least, though it might be deemed a Herculean task, yet it is 
no more than your neighbors are doing from Sandusky; but, as I understand 
it, you need only a road to Columbus, say 140 to 150 miles, to connect 
you at once with Cincinnati, and to bring the whole of the rich interior 
of your noble State to your very doors! Truly this is a small undertaking 
when the magnitude of its results is considered." (11) 

1591 - H Aug. 12; ed:2/l - There are three charters in existence for the 
construction of railroads across Canada north of Lake Erie. One, the 
Toronto and Lake Huron, cannot by its charter fix its western terminus 
below Port Sarnia. Another, the Great Western road, by its charter can 
fix its western terminus at any point on the St. Clair or Detroit river. 
No western terminus has as yet been determined upon. Another charter 
which expires next spring authorizes a road from Windsor to Berthie. 

"It is very evident that unless a Rail Road shall be constructed 
along the Southern shore of Lake Erie from Buffalo West, that a road or 
roads across Canada will not only be built, but will draw much travel 
and business out of the United States." (6) 

1592 - H Aug. 16; ed:3/l - Cleveland and Columbus Railroad - We are every 
day asked, "What is doing about this road?" We have seen no call for a 



282

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1593 - 1595 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

meeting of stockholders; in fact it has never been publicly announced 
that sufficient stock has been subscribed to authorize an organization 
under the charter. We have been told by one interested that the requi- 
site amount, namely, $50,000 was subscribed. If so, why are not the 
necessary steps taken to organize? Let the real estate owners of our 
city look to this matter of railroads in season; and in season means 
this season; delays are dangerous; when the world moves by locomotive 
we must hitch on or we ;ire distanced. (verbatim) (3) 

1593 • H Aug. 26:3/1 - There are in the United States 85 railroads, 

completed or in progress, with an aggregate extent of 3,906 miles, of 

which the aggregate cost was $119,241,897. (verbatim) (1) 

H Aug. 27; ed:3/l - See Canals &amp; Canal Boats 

1594 - H Aug. 27; ed:2/l - A new fast stage line from Xenia to Columbus 
makes it possible for one to make the Cincinnati to Columbus trip by 
daylight, the traveler employing the railway for the Cincinnati to Xenia 
trip. The Xenia to Columbus route will no doubt soon be laid, even 
shortening the above trip, but when will the Columbus to Cleveland rail 
line come into being? 

"Certainly no action by men of capital in this city would lead to 
any such supposition.... It cannot however be supposed, that while men 
of large landed property, who by its construction will have that property 
doubled, continue negative in their action, others less interested are 
going ahead in the work. A railroad from here through to Cincinnati 
would enable us to travel the entire route by daylight, would increase 
travel this way, and assuredly increase the amount of our forwarding 
business." (5) 

1595 - H Aug. 28:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, an anonymous person 
says: I am surprised there is so much apathy and so little said and done 
about a trans-state railroad from Cleveland to Cincinnati via Columbus. 
It should be a matter of first importance to your citizens. 

"No one. I think, at all acquainted with the spirit and improvements 
of the day can for a moment doubt that a Rail Road, forming a great 
leading avenue for trade and freight across the State, connecting the 
Lakes with the waters of the Mississippi, will and must soon be built, 
and that the time is not far distant when we shall receive most Southern 
products and many West India articles by way of the river, canal, and 
railroads." 

Several routes for such a road have been proposed, but the mor.t feasi- 
ble is the one from Cleveland via Elyria, Fitchville (on the Vermillion 
river), Fairfield, Plymouth (formerly Paris), Bucyrus, Marion, and Dela- 
ware, to Columbus. 

"Shall it be said that a Rail Road from your place to Columbus cannot 
be built for want of means? Why, the City of Cleveland as a corporate 
body should raise $500,000, and the citizens as individuals as much more 



283

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1596 - 1600 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

Let the right spirit prevail, and no doubt much stock would be taken along 
the route, especially in all the towns, and more or less among the farmers 
and mechanics." (15) 

1596 - H Aug. 28; ed:2/l - Wellsville citizens are very much interested 
in the Cleveland and Pittsburgh railroad project and have organized to 
subscribe enough money so as to be able to secure a charter. The 
charter requires that 60 days elapse before the organization of the com- 
pany, so that it cannot materialize until after Oct. 29. 

"We are glad to see Wellsville friends so much interested in this 
project." (3) 

1597 - H Aug. 28; adv:2/4 - Rail Road Notice - A meeting of the commis- 
sioners and stockholders of the Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad co. 
will be held at Ravenna on Wednesday the 29th day of October next, at 
ten o'clock a.m., for the purpose of electing officers and organizing 

the company. A. G. Catlett, J. W. Allen, Cyrus Prentiss, Zadock Street, 
James Stewart. (verbatim) (1) 

1598 - H Sept. 4; ed:3/2 - The Pittsburgh GAZETTE remarks that the 
terminus of the BaltioiDre road should be at or as near as possible to 
Pittsburgh, so as to give the Iron city connection with Cleveland and 
the lake. 

"We are pleased to see that our Pittsburgh neighbors are not only 
waking up to the importance of the 'road in Ohio' but to securing the 
termination of the Baltimore and Ohio Rail Road at the Iron City. 
Pittsburgh and Philadelphia begin to feel the effects of the new line 
of canal connecting Cincinnati with the Lake, and the pushing forward 
of the great Rail Road from Baltimore to Pittsburgh is the only chance 
that offers to retain the Western trade and travel." (5) 

1599 - H Sept. 9; ed:3/l - Our citizens will note that sufficient stock 
has been taken in the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad to 
secure its organization, a preliminary step which we hope will be 
followed by a survey and construction of this important line. 

"Columbus and Cincinnati will no doubt be connected by Rail Road in 
less than two years, and it behooves every property holder in our city 
to see to it that the road is continued to the Lake at this point, in- 
stead of being pushed forward to Wheeling or some point on the Ohio." (3) 

1600 - H Sept. 9:2/1 - Four wealthy Columbus citizens made subscriptions 
of $7,000 each on Sept. 5 to the stock of the proposed Cleveland to 
Columbus railroad; this, with subscriptions elsewhere, will constitute 
the amount required by the charter for the organization of the company. 
There is no doubt the road, if built, will add immeasurably to local land 
values and trade. Whether the line is actually built remains to be seen, 
but it cannot be denied that the formation of the company is a great 
step forward. The road from Columbus to Cincinnati will probably see 
completion within two years; and from this it will be speedily extended 



284

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1601 - 1605 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

to Cleveland or Wheeling. It is important that the line run to this 

city if travel eastward is to pass through here from Cincinnati. (9) 

1601 - H Sept. 9:2/5 - Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Rail Road - 
The undersigned, a committee appointed at the meeting of commissioners 
held at Mansfield on the first day of May last, for this and other pur- 
poses, having received the proper evidence of subscription to the capital 
stock of said company, required by the act of incorporation to be made 
before an organization of the company, hereby give notice to the sub- •' 
scribers, that a meeting will be held at the Neil House in the city of 
Columbus, on Saturday the 11th October next, at ten o'clock a.m., for 

the choice of directors and for such other business as to the stockholders 
present may seem expedient. Sherman Fitch, Ilosea Williams, Benjamin 
Powers, committee. (verbatim) (2) 

1602 - H Sept. 19; ed:3/l - Cleveland and Columbus Rail Road - This 
important proje&lt; t is attracting the attention of those interested through 
to the river as will be seen by the extracts from the Columbus JOURNAL 
and Cincinnati ATLAS. We command t'.em to the attention of our citizens, 
and moro especially the strictures and suogestion of the ATLAS. They should 
be real and acted upon, for depend upon it, if the capitalists of Cleveland do 
not exhibit a proper enterpi ise in keeping pace with the business facilities 
our sister to-^'ns and cities on the lake are building up for themselves, they 
will outstrip us in growth an I commercial importance. Let all interested in 
the prosperity of Ckveland look to it. (verbatim) (3) 

1603 - H Sept. 24; ed: 2/1,2 - In a letter to the JOURNAL OF COMMERCE, 
George M. .At^ater, boosting the ronstruction of the Erie railroad, says 
that a railroad from Cincinnati to Cleveland would save a distance 
equal to that between Cleveland and Sandusky. 

In this he is mistaken. We suppose that the route from Cincinnati to 
Cleveland may be 30 miles longer than from Cincinnati to Sandusky, but 
the distance from this place to Dunkirk and Buffalo by land or water is 
about 60 miles less than from Sandusky. 

"However this may be, the fact that a leading article in a New York 
daily pap r is devoted to the subject of a Rail Road from the Lake to 
Cincinnati, may well show to our people that it is deemed of importance 
abroad as well as at home." (9) 

1604 - H Sept. 27:3/1 ■ The Cincinnati ATLAS in noticing the improvements 
in Cleveland the present season, correctly remarks: If the citizens of that 
place only put their shoulders to the wheel and push forward the railway 
to Columbus, she will soon vie with any city in the western country, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1605 - H Sept. 30; ed:2/l - The city council it will be seen have called 
a public meeting to be held at the court house tomorrow evening, to 



285

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1606 • 1609 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

obtain an expression of the people in reference to the construction of 

the Columbus railroad; a matter in which every man among us has a deep 

interest. The question will also be submitted as to the expediency of 

the city taking stock. The whole subject is one of great importance and 

we hope this meeting will be a jam. (verbatim) (2) 

1606 - H Sept. 30:2/3,4 - The city council last night adopted a resolution 
directing the mayor to call a meeting of citizens at the court house, to 
consider the propriety of subscribing $200,000 for the Cleveland, Columbus, 
and Cincinnati railroad. (5) 

1607 - H Sept. 30; adv:3/l - Public Meeting - By a resolution of the city 
council at their last meeting, the undersigned, (his Honor the Mayor 
being absent) was requested to call a meeting of the citizens of Cleveland 
at the court house on Wednesday evening next, (Oct.l) to consider the 
expediency of the city subscribing $200,000 stock in the Cleveland, Co- 
lumbus and Cincinnati Railroad co., and if deemed expedient to adopt the 
proper measures for carrying the same into execution. 

In compliance with the request of the council, which is believed to be 
in accordance with the wishes of many of our citizens, a meeting is ap- 
pointed at the court house on Wednesday evening, Oct. 1 at seven o'clock 
for the objects above specified. F. W. Bingham, president of the city 
council. (verbatim) (3) 

1608 - H Oct. 2; ed:2/l - The meeting held last night at the court house, 
called in pursuance to a resolution of the city council concerning the 
Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad, was the best public meeting 
ever convened in this city. 

It has become a matter of surprise to our neighbors that Cleveland has 
been so stupid upon the project of this and other railroads. At this 
meeting last night all were interested and none questioned the propriety 
of an effort on the part of the city or disputed the feasibility of the 
proposed road. An objection brought against this road by some skeptical 
persons is that a rival route terminating at Sandusky will produce a ruin- 
ous competition. Our Sandusky neighbors are entitled to success for their 
public spirit and they will have their reward. There is room for all of 
us. 

"Our cities are not rivals, but sisters, and as such, let us move along 
with the several improvements, satisfied with the reasonable advancement, 
and happy in each other's prosperity, inasmuch as it tends to widen the 
giant strides of the young Buckeye, and to hasten the day when Ohio will 
dispute the palm with even the Empire State." (14) 

1609 - H Oct. 3:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Cleveland" says: I for- 
ward to you a conversation from the Holmes county WHIG, in which a down- 
state citizen recommends that the Columbus to Wooster, or Wooster to 
Mount Vernon section of the proposed Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati 
railroad pass from Wooster down the valley of the Killbuck to the mouth of 



286

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1610 - 1612 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

Wolf creek, and thence up Wolf creek valley to the lake at Cleveland. 

"Having some knowledge of the route referred to by the writer, I have 
no doubt but from many considerations, it is entirely the most feasible 
and preferable one that could be selected.... 

"Holmes County is perhaps one of the best grain growing counties in 
the State. If the road be constructed, as contemplated, through Rich- 
land County, contiguous to the other route, the trade of Holmes County 
will still go to Massillon. Would it not, therefore, from various con- 
siderations, be the interest of the citizens of Cleveland to have this 
route pass down the valley of the Killbuck, as suggested, especially if 
it be as favorable as represented?" (12) 

1610 - H Oct. 6; ed:3/l - Columbus and Xenia Rail Road - We are glad, to 
see that this work is to be pushed ahead with spirit, and that the com- 
pany will put a portion of the grading under contract on the 13th of this 
month. The Cincinnati CHRONICLE infers from this promptness and energy 
of the company that this important link in Cincinnati northern and eastern 
communications will be finished by November again. 

Friends of the Cleveland and Columbus railroad, do you hear that? 
Will you not exhibit a corresponding promptness and energy? The best 
interests of our city and the state demand it. (verbatim) (2) 

1611 - H Oct. 10:2/1,2 - The following are the various newspaper comments 
on the recent meeting held in Cleveland for the purpose of raising $200,000 
with which to purchase stock in the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati 
railroad. 

The Cincinnati UNION says: We have always considered it an error 
in Ohio that canals should have been dug instead of railroads laid. Rail- 
roads are a moral as well as a material motive power, and we most heartily 
wish success to all enterprises such as the one now under consideration. 

The Cincinnati ATLAS favors the work thus: We regret that we have 
not room for the entire proceedings of this meeting, but our Cleveland 
friends may rest assured that we are with them heart and hand in this work, 
now that they have undertaken to help themselves; and whatever we can do, 
shall be done promptly and freely. 

The Rochester, N. Y. DEMOCRAT says: Let this road be completed and 
there can be little doubt in the minds of men who recollect that 20 years 
ago one small steamboat, making a trip in 10 or 12 days between Buffalo 
and Detroit, could hardly earn money enough to pay for her fuel, while now 
there are three large boats each way every day. Let the gap be speedily 
filled and thus make a continuous iron road from New York to Cincinnati to 
be traveled by iron horses in from 40 to 50 hours. (27) 

1612 - H Oct. 14; ed:3/l - Our citizens will be gratified to learn by the 
Columbus letter we publish today that the Cleveland, Columbus and Cin- 
cinnati Railroad co. has been organized under such favorable auspices. No 
better directors could have been selected, and we have every confidence 
that the ball set in motion will not stop until it rolls on an iron way 



287

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1613 - 1617 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

from the city of the lake to the Queen city of the west. Let every true 
Clevelander put shoulders to the wheel and heave heartily until the through 
cars are in motion. (verbatim) (2) 

1613 - H Oct. 14:2/1 - At a meeting of the stockholders of the Cleveland, 
Columbus and Cincinnati railroad at Columbus on Oct. 11, the following 
were elected directors: John W. Allen, Peter M. ffeddell, John M. Woolsey, 
Richard Hilliard, and Henry B. Payne, all of Cleveland. Several Co- 
lumbus citizens were also elected. The following were elected officers: 

J. W. Allen, president; William Neil, treasurer; A. G. Lawrence, secretary. 

It was resolved that the work should be commenced at Cleveland in the 
very near future under the supervision of the five directors residing in 
this city. It is thus reduced to a certainty that the work is to go for- 
ward speedily and that the road is to be positively built. (6) 

1614 - H Oct. 16; ed:2/2 - The STATE JOURNAL believes the directors 
of the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad will have a corps of 
engineers in the field surveying the line within ten days, and adds that 
the road, if built at the estimated cost of $1,500,000, cannot but help 
pay good dividends. The majority of the directors selected are of Cleve- 
land, says the JOURNAL, in the expectation that they will at once adopt 
measures for the survey work, grants of land for depots, right of way, &amp;c. 

"We are more than gratified to note the spirit manifested by our Co- 
lumbus friends in favor of this important work, and to learn that a corps 
of engineers will immediately commence the survey." (8) 

1615 - H Oct. 17:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "Sarcastic" says: Be- 
hold what energy can accomplish! What think you now of the New York and 
Erie road? A few weeks past and its progenitors were the sneer of rivalry; 
but now, its minority past, it stands forth as a corporate body, the pride of 
the Empire state. "Soon it will begin its giant strides westward, and when 
it reaches Cleveland, will lock in step with you, southward. Its history 
may quicken the friends of the glorious work so opportunely conceived within 
the circle of your influence." (12) 

1616 - H Oct. 20; ed:3/l - The 19th annual report of the Baltimore and 
Ohio railroad exhibits a prosperous and gratifying state of affairs, as 
the road now pays all its expenses and a handsome dividend besides. The 
report expresses confidence that the Pennsylvania legislature will grant 
the right of way for continuance of the road from Cumberland to Pittsburgh. 

"The road is one of great importance to Pittsburgh and Cleveland, and 
indeed to the whole Northwest, for if constructed, it will connect with 
the road about to be built from Cleveland to Pittsburgh, thus opening a 
rapid and available thoroughfare from the Lake to Baltimore." (7) 

1617 - H Oct. 25:3/1 - Wayne county citizens are to meet at Wooster on 
Nov. 1 in order to secure the line of the Cleveland, Columbus and Cin- 
cinnati railroad through the heart of that rich agricultural county. 



288

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1618 - 1623 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

The directors of the road have consented to meet a committee of Wayne 

citizens relative to the subject on that date. (2) 

1618 - H Oct. 31; ed:3/l - A committee of Toledo citizens has called a 
meeting of the citizens of lake towns from Buffalo to Toledo to convene 
here on Nov. 6, to discuss the subject of a proposed railroad from Buffalo 
to Toledo. 

"The meeting will probably be fully attended by delegates from all 
the towns on the Lake shore, and our own citizens should forthwith 
appoint delegates. The object is one that deeply concerns us all." (6) 

1619 - H Nov. 1; ed:3/l - The Massillon GAZETTE welcomes the committee 
making a survey for the Cleveland and Columbus railroad to run the line •' 
through that place and through Holmes county. 

"Massillon is one of the wealthiest and most flourishing towns in Ohio, 
and the 'remark' of the GAZETTE will no doubt be duly considered by the 
'Committee.'" (3) 

1620 - H Nov. 1:3/1 - There will be a meeting of the citizens of Cleve- 
land on Monday evening, Nov. 3, at seven o'clock at the court house to 
appoint delegates to the convention to be held here on the sixth instant 
in regard to the construction of a railroad from Toledo to Buffalo, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1621 - H Nov. 1:2/1 - The commissioners of the Cleveland and Pittsburgh 
railroad met at Ravenna on Oct. 29, and with Ph:'lo Scovill of Cleveland 
in the chair, elected ten directors. James Stewart of Wellsville was 
named president; A. G. Catlett, secretary; and Cyrus Prentiss, treasurer. '■' ' 

Colonel Dodge submitted a report stating the distance between Cleve- 
land and Wellsville at 97 miles, and estimating the cost of the road 
with flat-bar iron at $900,000. A more thorough report will be made 
later. (4) 

1622 - H Nov. 3; eJ:3/l - We observe that a public meeting is called at " ' 
the court house this evening for the purpose of nominating delegates to 

a convention to consult with reference to a railroad upon the south shore 
of the lake from Toledo to Buffalo. 

This road is of great importance to Cleveland, for if the proposed 
road is constructed through the province of Canada, it will do us more 
injury than any other road can do. We presume our citizens will show 
their interest in the proposed convention, and that suitable delegates 
will be appointed to represent her interests and wishes. (verbatim) (2) 

1623 - H Nov. 4:3/1 - The route to Berea was found to be very feasible 
for a railroad. Elevation to Berea, 13 miles gradual - the highest land 
there, 224 feet above Lake Erie. Crossing of Rocky river better than 
was anticipated. From Berea, the route surveyed runs above Hoadley's 
mills in Columbia. (verbatim) (1) 



289

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1624 - 1628 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

1624 - H Nov. 4:2/1 - At a public meeting of the citizens of Cleveland at 
the court house yesterday in reference to the proposed construction of a 
railroad from Toledo to Buffalo, Alexander Seymour was called to the chair, 
and H. C. Kingsley appointed secretary. The object of the meeting was ex- 
plained, after which the following resolutions were adopted: That 25 dele- 
gates be appointed to attend the contemplated convention in this city two 
days hence, which was done; that a committee of three be named to make ar- 
rangements for the convention; J. W. Allen, L. C. Turner, and H. C. 
Kingsley being chosen; that three delegates be appointed to attend the con- 
vention at Memphis, Tenn., on Nov. 12; J. A. Briggs, L. C. Turner, and C. 
Whittlesey being named; that the proceedings of the meeting be published in 
the daily papers of the city. (5) 

1625 - H Nov. 5:3/1 - The convention of delegates to consult in relation to 
a railroad from Toledo to Buffalo will meet in the council rooms on Thurs- 
day, Nov. 6, at two p.m. 

The citizens are invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

1626 - H Nov. 7; adv:2/4 - In pursuance of a resolution of the general assem- 
bly of Ohio providing for the sale of the property, fixtures, right of way, 
&amp;c., of the Ohio Railroad co. passed on Mar. 12 last, the board of public 
works will receive proposals at Columbus until Dec. 24 next for the pur- 
chase of this road. 

Proposals may be made for the whole line extending from the Pennsylvania 
state line to the Maumee river, or for the following separate sections: 
First, for all the portion east of Cleveland; second, for portion between 
Cleveland and the termination of the Mad River and Lake Erie railroad at 
Sandusky; third, that portion between Sandusky and Lower Sandusky at the 
head of the Sandusky river; fourth, for the remaining portion between the 
Sandusky and the Maumee rivers. (3) 

1627 - H Nov. 7:2/3 - At a meeting of the citizens of MassiUon on Nov. 3 
it was decided to send delegates to meet the sponsors of the Cleveland and 
Columbus railroad at Cleveland tomorrow. The meeting was held to effect 
the passage of the road through Akron and Massillon. (4) 

1628 - H Nov. 7; ed:2/l - Massillon citizens are enthused over the proposed 
railroad from Cleveland to the Ohio river, and their meetings, called to ef- 
fect the passage of such a road through their town and county, testify to 
that fact. From Massillon to the river is a distance of only 55 to 60 miles. 
Hence a railroad intersecting the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati line 

at Massillon would save 35 to 40 miles of road, while increasing the distance 
only ten to 15 miles. 

In Medina, $100,000 has been subscribed toward the building of the road 
through that town and through Wayne county. 

Our Elyria friends suggest that a more northern route be selected, one 



290

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1629 - 1632 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

to pass through that enterprising village and be the common line of the 
proposed Cleveland and Columbus and the Buffalo and Toledo lines. Holmes 
county citizens, too, are desirous of having the Cleveland to Columbus 
road pass down the Killbuck river valley and through their county. 

"The contemplated railroads from this city to the Ohio river are ex- 
citing no little interest among the people on the proposed routes." (14) 

1629 - H Nov. 7:2/1 - Sale of Ohio Rail Road - See advertisement of Board 
of Public Works for a chance to make bargains. (verbatim) (1) 

1630 - H Nov. 8:2/2 - A meeting was held in this city today, and had under 
consideration the practicability and importance of the construction of a 
railroad along the south shore of Lake Erie and west to Michigan City and 
Chicago. Judge Ely of Elyria was named president, and B. F. Wade of Ash- 
tabula county, secretary; Elisha Whittlesey and Judge Mason of Toledo 
presented some very eloquent and pertinent statistical remarks, an abstract 
of which, as well as the certified proceedings of the meeting, we hope 

to lay before our readers on Monday. (verbatim) (2) 

1631 - H Nov. 10:2/2,3 - Gentlemen who are in favor of constructing a 
railroad along the south shore of Lake Erie, which would ultimately 
connect Buffalo with the Mississippi, assembled in the hall of the common 
council of the city of Cleveland on Nov. 8. 

Following organization of the meeting, John W. Allen of this city 
called upon Elisha Whittlesey and Judge Mason to communicate what statis- 
tical information they had obtained on their late tour between Toledo 
and Michigan City. This report dealt with the history of the project since 
its inception by a company that had been incorporated some years ago, the 
towns through which the proposed road would pass, the physical nature of 
the county along the route, the products of the territory, the distribution 
of the population to be served, and the number of wagon trains of emigrants 
at certain points in a day - to be considered in any plan of conveyance 
advantageous to both parties. 

This account was listened to with much interest, and a committee of 
delegates including John M. Woolsey and Samuel Starkweather of Cleveland 
was appointed to issue circulars appointing a convention to be held at some 
future day to be designated by them. (35) 

1632 - H Nov. 10; ed:2/l - The fact that successful efforts are being made to 
construct a railroad through Canada must arouse the energies of the people 
along the south shore of Lake Erie, and should excite a spirit of nationality 
among us. 

The American producers and capitalists will never favor the project of 
transporting the productions of the mighty west through a foreign province 
when it can be done more advantageously in a pecuniary point of view 
through their own country. It is our interest to give our influence and 
encouragement to the proposed new railroad along the south shore of Lake 
Erie. 

"The construction of the Columbus and Wellsville road would greatly aid 



291

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1633 - 1636 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

the construction of this, and the two roads would largely contribute to 
the value and productiveness of this. There is and can be no rivalry or 
collision of interest. Let us then arouse ourselves to the importance of 
our local position, and secure the rich and enduring advantages now with- 
in our reach." (9) 

1633 - H Nov. 11:3/2 - The absence of Toledo delegates at the convention 
held in Cleveland recently to discuss a Toledo to Buffalo railroad is 

thus explained: The steamer INDIANA, on which they were traveling, struck 
a sunken scow and detained them. The Toledo delegates are especially 
mortified, since the convention was called by them. (3) 

1634 - H Nov. 12:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Huon" says: For the 
first time, 1 have passed from the lake to the Ohio river through our 
Buckeye state, and I am more proud of Ohio now than ever before. However, 
who would believe in traveling from Cleveland to Cincinnati that Ohio has 
1,700,000 people? The population along the line of travel indicates nothing 
of the kind. From Cleveland to Wooster it is pretty well settled; from 
Wooster to Mount Vernon it is almost a wilderness; from Mount Vernon to 
Columbus there are only a few villages, nothing at all to indicate the 
large population of this state. The grazing lands, however, all through 
Ohio are the finest in this section of the world. 

"I do hope, however, that rail-roads will bring with them some of the 
good Yankee improvements into the portion of the State I have reference 
to.... 

"ff'io that has ever travelled from Cleveland to Columbus, either in the 
heat anj dust of summer, or in the must of spring or fall, when the bottoms 
of the roads have fallen out, does not wish for a good rail-road? The world 
has had its golden age - its silver age - its iron age - and this is its 
rail-road and copper age. It will be profitable to the stock-holders, and 
very comfortable to the traveller, when a rail-road is constructed, so that 
we can take an early breakfast in our beautiful city of the lake, and take 
tea in this grand and magnificent city of the la-belle-riviere. And this 
time will be within three years from the date of this letter, in my opinion." 

(14) 

1635 - H Nov. 12:3/1 • Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad - Colonel Dodge 
had made a report of the survey which has just been completed, making the 
distance 96-3/4 miles; estimating the cost for bar rail at $882,223, and for 
T or U rail $400,000 additional, and establishing the entire practicability 
of the route. 

Colonel Dodge is to commence the survey of the route from Wellsville 
via Big Yello.v creek in the course of the present month. (verbatim) (1) 

1636 - H Nov. 14; ed:2/3 - The Buffalo COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER is 
enthused over the proposed Buffalo to Toledo railroad through Cleveland. 

It says: If there were a continuous iron way from Buffalo to Cleveland, and 
thence into the Scioto and Miani valleys, a large amount of the more valu- 
able agricultural produce would come to this port, ice or no ice, winter or 
summer. There can be no reasonable doubt but that a railroad from this city 



292

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1637 - 1640 - 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

across the Western Reserve in Ohio will pay well, for the inhabitants 

are of the true New England stock, and Whigs all the way!! (4) 

1637 - H Nov. 15; ed:2/l • Two companies of engineers are in the field 
surveying the route of the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad. 
One is at Ashland, 57 miles from here, and the other is near Wooster. No 
unforseen difficulties have come up thus far and the country is declared 

a very favorable one for railroads. 

"We are glad to learn that the surveys are progressing with commendable 
energy." (3) 

1638 - H Nov. 22:2/3 - The Wooster DEMOCRAT says of the Cleveland, 
Columbus and Cincinnati railroad: The corps of engineers starting the 
road survey from Wooster on Nov. 15, have worked their way to about '^• 
half the distance between Wooster and Londonville. So far the route 
seems entirely practicable. The entire distance from Cleveland to 
Wooster, by the route surveyed, is 57-1/2 miles. 

The Mansfield JEFFERSONIAN says that another route is being surveyed 
for the Cleveland and Columbus road. The engineers left Cleveland several 
days ago and are near Mansfield. The contemplated route, after entering 
Richland county, passes through Orange village on a southwest course to 
Spring Mills, thence to Ashland, Windsor, and Mansfield. As straight a 
course as possible will be steered from Spring Mills to Columbus. The 
object in surveying the road so as to pass us (Mansfield) on the north is 
undoubtedly to induce local citizens to subscribe stock; the route will 
no doubt be changed through here if enough stock is subscribed. (7) 

1639 - H Nov. 29:2/1 - Surveyors on the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincin- 
nati railroad, working on a line north and west of Mansfield, have arrived 
within 25 miles of Columbus to date. The Wooster section of surveyors 
passed through Mount Vernon two days ago, and both groups will be at 
Columbus next week. No serious difficulties have as yet been found to 
impair the proposed building of the rail line. (2) 

1640 - H Dec. 3:2/2 - The following information with respect to the Cleve- 
land and Pittsburgh railroad are from the report of Col. S. Dodge, engineer 
for the project: The survey began on Sept. 8 and continued through Oct. 

17. The route pursued commences at Merwin st. in Cleveland and ascends the 
Cuyahoga river to the mouth of Kingsbury run, thence up said run to Kinsman 
St., three miles from the place of the beginning. From this point another 
line was run, diverging a little to the right and terminating at the inter- 
section of Pittsburgh and Kinsman sts., about 80 feet above the lake level 
(this double termination is to avoid the drayage up the steep grades of the 
streets leading to the river and the lake.) 

From the head of the run, the road winds around the side hill to Newburgh 
with a grade of 40 feet to the mile. It then descends to the valley of Mill 
creek and continues up the same near the turnpike road to Bedford, then 
crossing Tinker's creek, it leaves the turnpike to the left until it reaches 



293

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1641 - 1644 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

Hudson. From there it takes a more easterly course and passes north of 
Ravenna to Benton in Columbiana county. Here it crosses the Cleveland 
and Wellsville turnpike and continues near it to Salem thence it crosses 
the summit between the east and west forks of the Little Beaver creek 
{736 above lake level) to the summit between Beaver and Little Yellow 
creek, then to Wheeling, terminating at Wellsville, 45 feet above the bed 
of the Ohio river. 

There will be one tunnel, 154 yards long on Yellow creek; one curve 
of 1,000 feet radius, and several below 1,400 feet. The whole distance 
of the road will be 96 miles and 90 chains. The track is to be built of 
a double course of longitudinal timbers connected together with ties 
eight feet long, three feet asunder, and five by six inches in diameter. 
The upper wood rail will be secured by a flat bar of iron weighing 18 
pounds to the yard. T or H rail would be preferable, but would cost about 
$4,000 more per mile. The total expense of the road, ready for use, will 
be $1,006,068.27. (15) 

1641 - H Dec. 4:3/2 - C. Williams, the engineer who is surveying the pro- 
posed Cleveland and Columbus railroad, has reported on the surveying of 
two routes for this road. One, the western route, passes through Ashland 
and extends three and a half miles north of Mansfield; a second, the east- 
ern, passes through Wooster, Loudonville, and Mount Vernon. The former 

is 141 miles long, the latter 143 miles. (4) 

1642 - H Dec. 8; ed:3/l - The surveys of a canal railroad from Columbus to 
Delaware are among the records in the office of the department of public 
works. A railroad company will begin a line from Ashland through Mans- 
field to Harrisville in a few weeks. 

These works are vitally important to the country and to Cleveland. 
"We flatter ourselves on the efforts in its behalf, and the interest now 
existing will not be suffered to lag for a moment till the iron horses 
shall be running upon the road at the rate of 30 miles to the hour." (5) 

1643 - H Dec. 17; ed:2/l - The companies of engineers examining routes 
for the proposed Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati railroad are now in 
the city, their work completed, compiling a comprehensive report of the 
survey. 

We are told that the engineers were everywhere along the route treated 
with kindness and civility. They report an anxiety among the down-state 
people to have the road built, and forecast large subscriptions to the road's 
stock. 

"We see a notice in the Columbus papers for a meeting of the Commission 
ers of the Columbus and Lake Erie Rail Road Company, with reference to 
an organization. If this be intended to head our project, we beg the Di- 
rectors to work on as they have begun, with energy and spirit, or they may 
find that delay will create obstacles difficult to surmount." (7) 

1644 - H Dec. 23; ed:2/l - A writer of a communication in the Mount Vernon 



294

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1645 - 1650 

RAILROADS (Cont'd) 

TIMES advocates a railroad line through Wooster as the best and opposes 
the Delaware route because it increases the distance and would eliminate 
the profits. 

Railroads have a prodigious creative faculty; many things have value 
now where before they had none. Knox county is not half settled, nor are 
its resources half developed. If Knox county can now supply 20,000 tons 
for transportation, why should it not be 40,000 by and by? 

The 36,166,750 pounds of exports and the return freight on say 2,000 
tons of that county would pay $120,000 for transportation. "If this 
exhibit should prove any where near correct, can there be a particle of 
doubt as to the road paying good dividends? We think none." (9) 

REAL ESTATE 

1645 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/4 - For Rent. - A small house on Chestnut - st. ._^ ■ 
possession given immediately. 

Likewise my present residence. Possession given about the 15th of 
January. J. F. Chamberlin. (1) 

1646 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/4 - At a bargain - for sale ■ Five Lots in Ohio 
City, pleasantly situated and desirable for private residence, to wit: 
West half of lot No. 98, east half of lot No. 93, and lots Nos. 623, 624 
and 712 in Barler &amp; Lord's sub-division. The above lots will be sold 
low for cash in hand, or on short credit. Enquire at the office of 

Bolton &amp; Kelley. (verbatim) (1) 

1647 - H Jan. 28; adv:2/4 - For Rent. - A lot of ground on Superior st., 
adjoining the store occupied by A. Sackett, 29-1/3 feet front, 66 feet 
deep, would be leased for a term of years on reasonable terms. Apply 

to H. &amp; E. Gaylord. (1) 

1648 - H Feb. 21; adv:2/4 - A Good Farm For Sale - 72-1/2 acres of Land 
situated in Warrensville, about half a mile from Judge Warren's; about 60 
acres improved, a dwelling house and barn, and cider mill, 2 good orchards, 
with all kinds of grafted fruit. One half to be paid down and the rest in 
one and two payments. William Doolittle. (verbatim) (1) 

1649 - H Feb. 24; adv:2/5 • The subscriber will lease for a term of years 
the ground lying on the corner of the public square and Ontario st. H. 

P. Weddell. (verbatim) (1) 

1650 - H Mar. 4; adv:2/4 - 14 City Lots To Lease. - The subscriber offers 
to lease on reasonable terms, three lots on River street, four on Spring 
street, four on Canal st., one on do. and Canal basin, two on Champlain 
st. (in rear of Exchange.) 

He has also a few lots well located in the central part of the city, 
for sale on reasonable terms. P. S. In order to secure any of these 
bargains, early application must be made, to Irad Kelley. (verbatim) (1) 



295

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1651 - 1658 

REAL ESTATE (Cont'd) 

1651 - H May 20:3/3 - The city council last night adopted a resolution 
authorizing the mayor to negotiate with the Commercial Bank of Lake 

Erie for the purchase of a schoolhouse lot. (2) 

1652 - H July 1; adv:2/6 - For Sale Or Rent. - A two story brick dwelling 
house, on Kinsman st. with barn, well and cistern, ten minutes walk from 
the court house. Or one on Miami - st. five minutes walk from the court 
house. Possession given in one week. Enquire of John Wicken. (1) 

1653 - H July 1; adv:2/7 - A house and lot on the corner of Seneca and Lake 
sts., now occupied by J. R. Stafford. Also, a lot adjoining said Stafford's 
residence on Lake st. Enquire of A. G. Lawrence, Merwin Square. (1) 

1654 - H July 1; adv:2/5 - For Sale - The lot and buildings there on, 50 
feet on Detroit-st. in Ohio City, opposite Columbus Block, and adjoining 
easterly the brick store of Mr. Luke Risely. For terms inquire of 
Andrews, Foot &amp; Hoyt, Esqs., or C. E. Tracy. Cleveland. (1) 

1655 - H July 2; adv:2/5 • Land And General Agency. The undersigned re- 
spectfully informs his friends and the public generally, that he intends 

to devote his whole attention to the sale, exchange and purchase of real 
estate and other property, and conduct the negotiation of loans, renting 
of farms, stores, dwellings, offices, &amp;c. In short will attend to all 
matters of business in the above line, together with general intelligence 
of local nature. Charges moderate. Alvin Kimball, Office at the foot of 
Superior - lane, 1st door west of Custom house. (verbatim) (1) 

1656 - H July 2; adv:2/5 • For Sale At A Bargain. The new store and 
dwelling house situated on the corner of St. Clair and Wood sts., with 4 
years lease of ground. 

Also, a new and convenient dwelling house on the same lot, fronting 
St. Clair st. 

Also, a house and two lots 45 feet front by 114 each, situated on the 
corner of Clinton and Hamilton sts. 

The above property will be sold cheap, For further particulars enquire 
of H. N. Humiston. (verbatim) (1) 

1657 - H July 3; adv:4/4 - City Lots For Sale - Two on the corners of 
Prospect and Middle ■ st, one House and Lot on the south side of Prospect 
- St., near the Mechanic's Block, one on the corner of High and Middle - 
sts., near the Champion Block, one between Canal - st. and the canal 
opposite the Champion Block, one between the canal and River, about 20 
rods below the Stone Mill, and the two Dry Docks. Apply to S. Williamson, 
S. B. Prentiss. (verbatim) (1) 

1658 - H July 3; adv:4/3 - For Sale - A lot on Kinsman street, north of 
Cross - st.; cheap for Cash. Enquire of John Barr, Esq., No. 9, Water - 

St. (1) 



296

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1659 - 1666 

REAL ESTATE (Cont'd) 

1659 - H July 5; adv:2/5 - Western Reserve Agency, for the purchase and 
sale of real estate in the counties of the Reserve. Chas. Whittlesey, 
No. 5 Merchants Exchange, Superior - st. 

Rent collection, title inspection, and land sale agency. (3) 

1660 - H July 14; adv:2/6 - For Rent - A good two story House situated on 
the west side of Erie - st. between Euclid and Superior - sts., with 

barn, etc. attached. Enquire of J. A. Briggs, Auditor's office. (I) 

1661 - H July 14; adv:2/6 - A Valuable Lot For Sale - the vacant lot on 
Water - st., corner of Centre - st. 48 feet on Water - st. by 198 feet on 
Centre - st. will be sold cheap for cash. Enquire of R. Hillard. (1) 

1662 - H Aug. 9; adv:2/4 - Notice. Having made arrangements requiring change 
in my business, I take this method to announce that the business of the 

Land and General Agency Office, with which 1 have been connected, will 
hereafter be conducted by Messrs. Harmon Kingsbury and Elijah Bingham. 
The extensive acquaintance and long experience of Mr. Kingsbury, and the 
satisfactory results of his negotiations during the last 25 years, in 
the purchase, sale and exchange of some $300,000 worth of Farms and 
Wild Lands, together with the well known competency and correct business 
habits of Mr. Bingham, induce the belief that the interests of those 
concerned in this agency will suffer no loss by the change, and I take 
pleasure in recommending to them the favor and patronage of the public. 
A. Kimball. (verbatim) (1) 

1663 - H Sept. 9; adv:2/4 - Land For Sale. 1,000 Acres Of Land In Mayfield 
Cuyahoga County, Ohio. Known As The Ann Steven's Land. Sam S. Austin. 

(2) 

1664 - H Sept. 25; adv:2/4 - For Sale - A Pleasant Residence on the South 
side of Euclid - st., a few rois east of Perry street. Lot 88 ft. front 

- 13 rod deep. House, two stories - new, substantially built and com- 
pletely finished and other improvements about the lot. Price very low. - 
Enquire of Kingsbury &amp; Bingham, Land Agents, 2 Water - st. (1) 

1665 - H Sept. 26; adv:2/5 - For Sale, Low For Cash, on long credit, or 
exchange for City Property. Farms ranging from 40 acres to 281 acres. 
Enquire of E. G. Williams, 7 Franklin Buildings. (2) 

See Also Estates 

REFORM MOVEMENTS 

1666 - H Oct. 8; ed:3/2 - The Great World's Convention, with Robert Owen 
at its head, is now in full blast in New York. If the Convention starts 
any project by which the world will be made better, and its people wiser, 
healthier and happier, we will apprise our readers in due time. At 



297 

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1567 - 1669 

REFORM MOVEMENT (Cont'd) 

present it sefms to be going on in its old sinful and careless course, 

not seeming to care a whit for the philosophers assembled at Clinton 

ilall. (verbatin) (I) 

1667 - H Oct. 15; ed:3/2 • The world's convention has terminated its 
sessions at New York, and the oi ly rt-sult is that all the plans of 
social reform, except that of R^-bert O.ven, are crude and impracticable. 
"This is about the sum total of th ■ work accomplished by this great 
Convention, which displayed among its m. mbers as much folly, nonsense 
an! fanaticisTi as ever distinguished any other Convention of Philoso- 
phers cillcd together to accomplish the impossible task of reforming 
the world and turning men into angels." (3) 

See also Temperance 

RELIGION 

1668 • H Jan. 18:3/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Mother" says: 
"If one wishes to judge correctly of the comparative value of Infidelity 
and Christianity, let him test their merits in the hour cf affliction. 
Take for example a Mother, who, during the brief existence of her infant 
boy, has tasted as full a cup of happiness as was ever presented to 
mortal lips. Her child is suddenly ill, and she takes her station by the 
sick bed of the little sufferer - who has already entwined himself so 
closely around her heart, that its every fibre would be rent by separation. 

But her child must die!... She has thrown away the Bible, and with 
it. all the bright visions of glory which open before the believer in its 

sacred truths 

"Now place the Christian mother, who has an unshaken faith in the 
declarations of God's word, in similiar circumstances.... Faith lifts 
the veil that hides eternal realities from the view, and displays the 
much - loved little one surrounded by angels and the spirits of the 
just made perfect." (14) 

1669 • H Jan. 25:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "An Anti • Mohammedan" 
says: "You will not, I think, r' fuse me a place in your columns for a 
simple contrast between the spirit of mohammedanism and the spirit of 
Christianity. 

The spirit of moh.imme "anism says: "War, then, is enjoined against you, 
the infidels. Kill the idolaters wherever you shall find them • lay wait 
for them in every convenient place ■ strike off their heads. Verily God 
hath purchased of the true believers their souls and their substance, 
pr.jmising ihem the enjoynent (f paradise on condition that they fight 
for the cause of God." - Koran, Chapter 2, 4, 9 and 47. 

The spirit of Christianity says: "Love your enemies; do good to them 
that hate you; and pray for them that persecute and calumniate you." Math. 
5:44. 

Can men, owing to their weakness, utter more atrocious and blood-thirsty 



298

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1670 - 1673 

RELIGION (Cont'd) 

language than that of the Koran? How peaceful is the word of truth! 

May the spirit of Christianity teach us to shun the blood of mohamme- 

danism is the humble prayer of liim who is ever yours." (9) 

1670 - H July 5:3/3 - In a letter to the editor, A. D. H. says: The 
Bethel chaplain fears for the continuance of his little church, built 
through the donations of philanthropists and vessel owners, due to the 
fact that sailors seem to steer clear of it. 

"Why? - Are they so reckless as to despise the blessings of the Sab- 
bath? Oh no, but it was a bright, beautiful summer day, and the sailor 
has no Sabbath in summer! 

"Is there no hope for the tempest - tossed marmer? Is there no chord 
of sympathy in the heart of his employer, that can vibrate to the thrilling 
story of his danger?" The sailor's employer himself enjoys rest on the 
Sabbath, whilst his employe toils on this day of the Lord. 

"Let the benevolent of all classes, the patriot, the philanthropist, 
and the Christian, rally round the Sailor's Sabbath, and rescue it from 
its present desecration. Let it be speedily done, and the blessings of 
many ready to perish will fill your heart with a joy that the wealth of 
this world is too poor to give and too powerless to take away." (16) 

1671 - H Dec. 24:3/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, H. U. T. says: "The 
return of the anniversary of the birth of our Saviour, we feel, should 

be regarded as one of the most holy and, at the same time, joyful festivals 
of the church and of the world. He came as the prince of peace. The 
tumults that had convulsed the world and for generations deluged it with 
the blood of the slain were all hushed, the temple of Janus was shut, the 
priests of slaughter no more offered up their reeking victims, and a 
calm, such as the world had scarcely known since the first outbreak of 
human passions, welcomed the Messiah to this abode of guilt and woe." 

Were the precept "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do 
to you, do ye even so to them" universally observed, how soon would men 
beat their swords into ploughshares. "Slavery and oppression would be known 
among men, and the unequal and unjust laws that have respect either to the 
color or condition of human beings would vanish before this equal principle 
like the dews of night before the heat of the rising sun." Let this day be 
held sacred to the promotion of universal peace and good will. (34) 

See also Churches &amp; Sects 

RETAIL STORES &amp; TRADE 

1672 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/5 - Blankets - For sale cheap. HilHard &amp; Hayes. 

(1) 

1673 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/5 - New Goods - Improved Kinds - Locks, Latches, 
Butts, nearly all of the new kinds and can be found very low at the 
Wholesale and Retail Hardware store, sign of the saws. J. T. Kirkland 

&amp; Co. (1) 



299

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1674 - 1683 

RETAIL STORES &amp; TRADE (Cont'd) 

1674 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/7 - Reynolds' &amp; Clark's Patent cast Butts and 
Roy &amp; Co's. Wrought Butts. Also a large assortment of Doors and House 
fixings, just rec'd by H. Moore &amp; Co., Corner Superior and Union lanes. 

(1) 

1675 - H Jan. 3; adv;l/l - C. C. Carlton, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 
Staple and Fancy Dry Goods and Groceries, No. 69, Superior street. (1) 

1676 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - Dr. W. A. Clarke, Wholesale and Retail Dealer 
in Drugs, Medicines, Paints, Oils, Dye Stuffs, Groceries. Confectionary, 
Fruit, Wines, etc.. No. 11, Superior st. (1) 

1677 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/5 - Carpeting! New Carpeting!! 15 ps. new styles 
Ingrain Carpet; 8 ps. New styles Stair Carpet; 6 ps. low price carpets, 
some very showy for a little money; 10 ps. Hemp Carpet; 6 ps. Druggist or 
floor Cloth. Also, a good assortment Oil Cloths from 3 - 4 to 8 - 4 wide 
for sale very low for cash only at 69 Superior st. C. C. Carlton, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1678 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/4 - By Express. E. T. Nichols has this day rec'd, 
by Express, a new supply of Light and Dark Lynx, a splendid article. 
Also, Genet, Coney, and Squirrel Skin Muffs, going as usual very cheap - 
Call and see. (1) 

1679 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/2 - H. &amp; E. Gaylord. Dealers in Groceries, Drugs, 
Medicines, Paints, Oils, Dye Stuffs, etc.. No. 30, Superior st. (1) 

1680 - H Jan. 23; adv:2/4 - Salt! Salt!! Salt!!! - 700 bbls. fine and 
coarse Salt, in handsome bright barrels, in store, for sale by Theod: 
Faber. (verbatim) (1) 

1681 ■ H Jan. 29; adv:2/4 • Thomas Branson, Grocer, Superior-st. , opposite 
Bank-st., being about to retire from the business, will for 14 or 20 days, 
sell off his stock of Groceries, Crockery Ware, Stone Ware, and Tin Ware, 
with all other of his Goods, at cost Prices; therefore the public who are 
in want of such goods, may have great bargains. 

The Goods are new and good, especially his Teas, of which he has a 
large stock, will be well worth the attention particularly of all Tavern 
keepers and Boarding Houses. The Store to let. (verbatim) (1) 

1682 - H Feb. 1; adv: 2/6 - For Sale, - The Store and Ashery occupied by 
William Fuller at Brighton Village within 4 miles of this city, is for sale, 
A good title can be given, and long pay day, or cheap for cash. The Plank 
Road from Wooster to this place, will run by the store, and a good business 
can be done if properly attended to. Inquire of Horace Foote and T. M. Bond. 

(1) 

1683 - H May 8:3/1 - Our enterprising friends Messrs. Huntington and Brooks, 
are now receiving 100 crates of Crockery direct from the English potteries - 
their own importation. The importation of crockery direct is a new feature 
in the business of our city, and one that promises well. Country merchants 
and dealers are referred to the advertisement of Messrs. H. and B. (2) 



300

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1684 - 1693 

RETAIL STORES &amp; TRADE (Cont'd) 

1684 - H May 20; adv:2/5 - Ice Creams of every flavor. Families and 
Parties can be supplied at the shortest notice, Also, Bride and Fruit 
Pound Cakes, and Cakes of every description. H. Mould &amp; Sons, 
(verbatim) (1) 

H June 9:3/2 - See Streets 

1685 - H July 1; adv:l/2 - Huntington &amp; Brooks, Importers of, and dealers in 
China, Glass, Earthern Ware, Lamps, Castors, etc., No. 5 Superior street, 
Central Buildings, Cleveland; and on Main, between Fifth and Sixth streets, 
in Cincinnati, Ohio. H. D. Huntington, Cincinnati; 0. A. Brooks, Cleveland. 
All orders addressed to us at either place will receive prompt attention, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1686 • H July 1; adv:2/5 - Just rec'd and opening a splendid assortment of 
crockery consisting in part of China, Ironstone, Queens, Common Ware, &amp;c. 
Which will be sold at bargins. (sic) 

Call and examine. 

No charge for showing goods at the City Mills Store. Foot of Division - st. 

(1) 

1687 - H July 1; adv:3/4 - Half Barrels for packing Fish, a neat article, 

for sale by Theod. Faber. (verbatim) (1) 

1688 ■ H July 1; adv: 1/7 - New Carpets. A. D. Cutter is now receiving a 
large assortment which will be sold as cheap as can be purchased anywhere 

in this city. (1) 

1689 - H July 1; adv:l/7 - Very Important. Dry Goods, Groceries, Crockery, 
Hardware, Boots &amp; Shoes. 

For sale at No. 5, City Buil lings, cheaper than at any other store in 
this city, for good pay. A. A. Selover. (1) 

1690 - H July 1; adv:3/5 - William Milford, No. 75 River street, and No. 32 
on the dock. Groceries, Crockery, Hardware, Glassware &amp;c. &amp;c. Whole- 
sale and Retail. 

Sperm and Lard oil. White fish, Trout, Nicwood, Logwood, Fustic, Alum, 
Copperas, Chalk, Blue Vitriol, Crude Salt petre, &amp;c. &amp;c. (3) 

1691 - H July 2; adv: 4/5 - 20 Boxes best Fire Crackers for sale low at 
Brainard's. (verbatim) (1) 

1692 - H July 3; adv: 2/5 - Surgical Instruments - Evan's Lancets - Spring 
Lancets - Pocket cases - Dissecting cases and Turnkeys of all the most 
approved patterns. Clarke &amp; Fiske, Sign of the Gold Mortar. (1) 

1693 - H July 5; ed:2/l - Galvanic Shirts are advertised for sale by a linen- 
draper in Chatham st. They are particularly commended to short people who 
want to grow! (verbatim) (1) 



301

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1694 ■ 1704 

RETAIL STORES &amp; TRADE (Cont'd) 

1694 - H July 8; adv:2/5 - Attention Farmers!! The subscriber will pay 
cash at all times for Wool, Cheese, Beeswax, Feathers, Lard, Tallow, 
Butter, Hams Delivered At Cleveland. 

He may be found for a few days at A. S. Gardner's Store. 

W. H, Van Tyne, agent. (verbatim) (1) 

1695 - H July 14; adv:4/5 - Shaker Pipes - 20 gross for Sale by 0. E. 
Huntington. (1) 

1696 • H July 19; adv:2/5 • St. Clair Money Wanted. 50 Cents in Goods 

will be paid for St. Clair money for a few days at Park's Cornucopia, 

No. 37 Merwin-st. E. N. Park. (1) 

1697 - H Sept. 1; adv:2/4 - Removal - B. &amp; E. Mould have removed from No. 
11 Merwin street to No. 125 Superior street, opposite the ground for- 
merly occupied by the Temperance House, and have just received and are 
now offering for sale a fresh and general assortment of Confectionaries, 
Fruits, Family Groceries, etc., which they will sell at the lowest prices. 
Call and see. (1) 

1698 ■ H Sept. 18; advr2/5 - Window Shades. - 42-1/2 Doz. Window Shades 
&amp;f various patterns, at wholesale and retail, cheaper than ever sold here 
before. E. P. Morgan &amp; Co. (I) 

1699 - H Sept. 18; adv:2/5 - Drugs &amp; Medicines, Paints, Oils, Varnishes, 
Dye Woods, Dye Stuffs, &amp;c. &amp;c. for sale cheap by Mackenzie &amp; Haskell's, 
Phoenix Buildings, (1) 

1700 - H Sept. 19; aJv:2/4 - Furnishings Parlor Grates - A few very hand- 
some Grates of different patterns for sale by W. Bingham &amp; Co. (1) 

1701 - H Sept. 25; adv:2/4 - For Sale, a lot of Casks and Boxes at N. E. 
Crittenden's. (verbatim) (1) 

1702 - H Sept. 26; adv:2/5 - N. 0. Sugar - A prime article in barrels, 

for sale by W. L. Standart. (1) 

1703 - H Sept. 29; adv:2/5 • The subscribers have formed a co-partnership 
under the firm of Hutchinson &amp; Perry to date from 18th Sept. A.D., 1845, 
as dealers in Dry Goods, Hard Ware, Groceries, and the buying and selling 
of Produce and Provisions; and they solicit a share of the public patronage. 
Sam'l R. Hutchinson, Ashbel M. Perry. (1) 

1704 - H Oct. 3; adv:2/4 - W. H. Van Tyne, agent for groceries and pro- 
visions (also dry goods) has moved his store to I. Kelley's brick build- 
ing, 3d door east of H. F. Brayton &amp; Go's. Exchange Offices on the 
Merchant's Exchange. (I) 



302

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1705 - 1710 

RETAIL STORES &amp; TRADE (Cont'd) ' ' " 

1705 - H Nov. 1; adv:2/5 - Ladies and Gentlemen of Ohio, Indiana, and 
Illinois, but especially those of the Western Reserve, take notice that 
the greatest assortment of Toj's, &amp; Fancy Articles, Confectionery, 
Perfumes, etc. have arrived at J. Watson's great variety store, 81 
Superior st., Cleveland, 0. 

Suitable For Christmas &amp; New Year Presents. (2) 

1706 • H Nov. 12:3/2 - The under-signed being obliged to vacate his 
recent shop, in consequence of his lease having expired, will open a 
new shop, "fresh and clean," in about 10 days, in the Johnson's Block, 
where he will be happy to see his old customers. Robert Robison. 
(verbatim) (1) 

1707 - H Nfiv. 14; adv:2/4 - Rail Road Store. A Mercantile co-partnership 
has been formed under the firm of D. 0. Fanning &amp; Co., commencing from 
the 20th October last, for the transaction of a General Mercantile 
Business, and they offer Dry Goods, Cookery, Groceries Hardware, etc. 

At the old stand of the City Mills Store, foot of Division st. (2) 

1708 - H Nov. 19; adv:2/6 - W. Hobbs, Jr., Dealer in Dry Goods, Bonnets 
and Shoes, No. 60 Superior - st., "Empire Store," Merchants' Exchange 
Buildings. (1) 

See also specific trndes and commodities 

RIOTS. See Mobs &amp; Riots 

RIVERS &amp; HARBORS 

1709 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/4 - Office of Public Works, Cleveland Harbor, 
JanuTry, 1st, 1844. Sealed Proposals (post paid) will be received at 
this office, until Monday, the 3d day of February next, at 2 o'clock, 
P.M., of furnishing and delivering on the Public Works at Cleveland 
Harbor Shed: - 

Six Cast Iron Snubbing Posts, six and a half feet in length, and one 
foot diameter. 

A model can be seen, and information given in reference to the same, 
on application to T. B. W. Stockton, Esq., Superintendent at this office. 

The Post Mast conform to the model, and be approved by the Super- 
intendent. 

Delivery to be made during the month of April. William Milford, 
U. S. Agent. (verbatim) (1) 

1710 - H Mar. 10; ed:2/2 - The pocketing of the river and harbor bill by 
President Tyler may be classed as the last bad act of a bad head of a bad 
administration. 

"John Tyler took the sneaking responsibility of pocketing the Harbor 

Bill, lest Congress should pass it in spite of the veto Thank Heaven 

this country is rid of him." (6) 



303

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1711 - 1717 

RIVERS &amp; HARBORS (Cont'd) 

1711 • H Apr. 2:3/3 • At the city council meeting on Mar. 31, the harbor 
master was directed to report the expense of dredging the river in front 

of S. Clary's buildings. (1) 

1712 - H Apr. 24:2/4 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 22, the 
petition of Thomas Richmond for the appointment of a harbor master for 
Ohio and Cleveland Cities conjointly, inviting a conference of the two 
cities to that effect, was referred to the committee on public grounds who 
reported a resolution to that effect. The resolution was adopted. 

The harbor master was instructed to remove the obstructions in Cuyahoga 
river near the new bridge. (2) 

1713 - H July 25; ed:3/l - The Rock Out - The Racine people are harbor 
workers in good earnest and are determined to have a good harbor even if 
Uncle Sam cheerfully refuses to aid in the work. A large rock in the 
harbor made the entrance difficult and dangerous, and with a spirit 
worthy of emulation, the people of Racine at a heavy expense and much 
labor have removed the obstruction entirely, and the ADVOCATE of the 
15th is full of glorification on account thereof. Racine is bound to go 
ahead. (verbatim) (2) 

1714 ■ H Aug. 15; ed:3/2 - J. H. Simpson, first lieutenant, U.S.T.E., has 
issued a warning to all steamboat masters to pass their craft slowly 
through the harbor at Erie because of the dredging work now being carried 
on there. 

"Good Joke! A steamboat passing rapidly into Erie would be a novelty 
the smallest ones are obliged to feel their way in with the Pilot's hand 
on the backing bell, and two men at the wheel to turn sharp corners." (2) 

H Aug. 16; ed:2/l - See Sectionalism 

1715 - H Oct. 21; ed:2/l • Maumee citizens are endeavoring to secure a 
$51,000 congressional appropriation to remove all obstructions in the 
Maumee river, and to make the depth of the channel equal from the mouth 
of Swan creek to the foot of the rapids. 

"The proposed improvement would benefit a large section of country, as 
well as Maumee and Perrysburgh." (2) 

1716 • H Dec. 20:2/2 - Colonel Albert, chief of the topographical engineers, 
has recommended to Congress lake improvement totaling $376,178. Of this 
amount, Cleveland is to get $20,000 for harbor improvements here. (3) 

See also Shipping &amp; Ships 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS 

1717 - H Jan. 3:2/2 - At a meeting of the citizens of Cleveland and 



304

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1718 - 1722 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

vicinity last evening at the court house to consider the subject of the 

construction of a plank road to Wooster, John W. Allen and C. L. Russel 

were named president and secretary respectively of the organization 

formed to prosecute the proposed work. (3) 

1718 - H Jan. 6:3/1 - Woolsey has introduced a bill in the state leg- 
islature to amend the act incorporating the Wayne, Medina, and Cuyahoga 
Turnpike co. The bill provides that the company may demand and receive 
the full rates of toll as of the act of Feb. 14, 1844, provided that 
before demanding full tolls the company shall deliver to the treasurer 

of Cuyahoga county a bond for $5,000, with sufficient securities, so 

that the turnpike will be graded and repaired by Dec. 1, 1845. (2) 

1719 - H Jan. 14:2/2 - At a meeting of the citizens of Strongsville held 
in Albion on Jan. 10, for the purpose of considering the building of a 
plank road from Cleveland to Wooster, Marvin E. Stone was elected chair- 
man and John Wilson, secretary. It was decided at the meeting that as the 
road would benefit the whole county lying along the proposed road, every- 
thing should be done by the people to aid the proposed plan. 

The following men were appointed to circulate petitions: John Miller, 
W. H. Sabin, Josiah Graves, H. L. W. Leonard, and John Watson. 

An effort is now being made by the Waj'ne, Medina, and Cuyahoga Turn- 
pike CO. to obtain from the legislature an increase of the capital stock 
of said company for the purpose of enabling them to build the road. (3) 

1720 - H Jan. 14; ed:3/l - The proceedings of the Strongsville meeting to 
discuss the plans for a road from Cleveland to Wooster are printed else- 
where in today's HERALD. 

"There is not a doubt of the benefits that will arise to our citizens, 
as well as to the inhabitants of the country through which the road will 
pass, and we rejoice to see that all are awake upon the subject. We 
hope that no exertions will be spared, and that the work of forming the 
Company and building the road will be prosecuted with unabated energy." 

(3) 

1721 - H Jan. 21:2/3 - A meeting of the citizens of Parma was held at the 
Charles Hood hotel, on Jan. 14 for the purpose of considering the pro- 
priety of building a plank road from Cleveland to Wooster. John A. 
Ackley was appointed chairman, and F. F. Cogswell, secretary. After a 
discussion in favor of the road, a committee was appointed, on motion of 
H. K. Freeman, to consult with committees and citizens of other town- 
ships. The committee was composed of the following: William Humphrey, 
Moses Towl, James M. Brown, Isaac Burnham, and Jesse K. Freeman. (6) 

1722 - H Jan. 21; ed:3/2 - The citizens of Parma, in a meeting held on Jan. 
14, approved the plan of building a plank road from Cleveland to Wooster. 

"Let the ball roll on and the road be built as speedily as possible." (4) 



305

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1723 - 1727 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

1723 - H Jan. 28:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "H" says: Are the 
people of Cleveland to have a plank road or not? Is the most important 
subject to every property holder to lie along from year to year, or has 
there been enough interest awakened to ensure the construction of a road 
from this city to Wooster? "If the city of Cleveland had two Plank Roads 
terminating in it, each 50 miles long, they would increase the business 

at least one-third; and could a Road be made to Monroeville, it would 
intersect the Railroad from Sandusky city south, which passes thro' the 
best wheat counties of the State." (2) 

1724 - H Jan. 31:2/3 • In a letter to the editor, "B" says: The suggestion 
of "H" for a plank road running directly east is worthy of attention. The 
route through Mayfield, Chester, etc., to the Pennsylvania line, would pass 
through a fine country; but would not a road passing through Warrensville, 
Orange, etc., striking the Pennsylvania line in Kinsman, in Trumbull county, 
be more beneficial to stockholders? 

"If the Farmers on either of the routes wish a Plank-Road, let them make 
it manifest while the subject is before the People." (2) 

1725 - H Feb. 3:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Shardon" says: Having 
noticed the presentation of a bill in the senate to incorporate the Wooster, 
Medina and Cuyahoga Plank Road co., the provisions of which contemplate 
the construction of a road from Wooster by way of Wadsworth and Sharon in 
Medina county by the neatest and most practicable route to Cleveland, per- 
haps it would not be improper to discuss the merits of the route contem- 
plated by the act referred to. The right of way can be easily secured and 
there is an abundance of suitable timber available. The road will pass 
over one of the most productive and fertile sections of Ohio. It will 
also pass the great coal fields of Chippewa township. The inhabitants 

in this section will contribute largely toward building the road. 

Since the foregoing statement can be relied upon, will not the friends 
of the measure living in Cleveland and Wooster, who are greatly interested 
and will be most benefited by the road, take hold of it in earnest and take 
the necessary steps to procure the passage of the bill by calling public 
meetings and urging upon the legislature its speedy passage? (9) 

1726 - H Feb. 3:2/2,3 - A meeting of the citizens of Wadsworth took place 
in the office of Aaron Pardee on Jan. 24 for the consideration of the sub- 
ject of a plank road from Cleveland via Sharon and Wadsworth to Wooster, 

at which Sherman Loorais, Aaron Pardee, and William M. Eyles were appointed 
a committee to adopt resolutions. 

On motion of Aaron Pardee it was resolved that the proceedings of 
the meeting be signed by the chairman and secretary and forwarded to the 
editors of newspapers here and at Wooster with the request to publish them. 

(7) 

1727 - H Feb. 3:3/3 - Notice is hereby given that a petition will be presented 



306

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1728 - 1733 . - ■ 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

to the commissioners of Cuyahoga county at their next session on the first 
Monday in March next, praying they will appoint a committee to view out 
and if they think expedient to lay out a county road, beginning in the cen- 
ter of the road leading from the state road on the east side of the Ohio canal 
to Newburgh near the south side of Irad Kelley's farm in the township of In- 
dependence, thence easterly through tract three, east of the river along the 
north side of A. Robenet's nursery to the west line of Bedford township, 
thence northeasterly to the north line of Noah Sawyer's lot, thence along 
said line to the road now known as the old state road leading from Cleve- 
land to Hudson, thence north on said road about 50 rods to the line between 
N. H. Joy and Wetherly Nye, thence easterly on said line and most eligible 
ground to intersect the road leading from the canal up Tinker's creek on 
Mr. Wakefield's farm near the dwelling house. (verbatim) (3) 

1728 - H Feb. 13:3/2 - The people of Massillon are talking of building a 
Plank Road to Osnaburgh, and one to Dalton, with the view of continuing it 
to Wooster. The people of Grafton, Lorain County, are taking steps to 
secure the location of the proposed Plank Road from Cleveland to Wooster 
through that rich township, as the distance by that route would be only 
slightly increased, and its feasibility, owing to the level country 
through which it would pass, is thought to be greater than any other pro- 
posed, (verbatim) (2) 

H Feb. 14:3/1 - See Schools &amp; Seminaries 

1729 - H Feb. 17:3/2 - A meeting of the citizens of Granger was held on 
Feb. 10, to consider the subject of a plank road from Cleveland to Wooster 
via Wadsworth and Granger. A committee was appointed to draft resolutions 
expressive of the sense of the meeting. (3) 

1730 - H Mar. 3:3/2 - Bills have passed the House, to incorporate the 
Wooster, Harrisville, Grafton and Cleveland, the Black River and Sullivan, 
and the Millersburg and Wooster Plank Road companies. (verbatim) (1) 

1731 - H Mar. 11:2/4 - The Commissioners of Cuyahoga County, at their 
present March session, have determined on one-fifth of one per cent or 
twenty cents on each hundred dollars valuation as a road tax in said 
county for the current year, and that the said tax may be discharged by 
labor on the roads under the direction of the Supervisors of the several 
districts at the rate of seventy-five cents per day. J. A. Briggs, Auditor, 
By D. R. Whipple, Deputy. Commissioner's Office. (verbatim) (1) 

1732 - H Mar. 11:3/1 - The bill to authorize the City of Cleveland to 
subscribe stock in a plank road from Cleveland to Wooster, has passed 

the House. (verbatim) (1) 

1733 - H Mar. 15:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: "The 



307

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1734 - 1735 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

conditions and Natural resourses, such as level plains and forests of 
Norway pine as are available in construction of plank roads in Canada, 
are entirely lacking in Ohio so as to make the building of similar roads 
here impracticable. 

Now, Mr. Editor, I have no objections to individuals experimenting 
with their own Money, but I do protest to the doctrine that a bare 
majority of voters shall have the power to Mortgage our city for such 
Visionary projects, or any other. Our City was chartered for no such 
purpose, and our taxes are high enough already. 

"A good and durable road can be constructed of stone from Cleveland 
to Wooster with far less expense, including decay and repairs, in my 
humble estimation." (10) 

1734 - H Mar. 21:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Canadian" says: "I 
notice a communication in the Cleveland HERALD, over the signature of 
'A Farmer,' on the subject of plank roads, and alluding to one in Canada. 
The 'Farmer' is entirely mistaken in his principal facts. His notice 

of a plank road from Long Point, running 30 miles into the country, must 
refer to the Port Stanley and London road, commencing about 30 miles 
above Long Point. The duration of plank roads is considered settled at 
ten years in Canada, by actual experience. It is estimated that they 
will pay for themselves." 

HERALD: "Our correspondent is here handled pretty plainly, and yet 

appropriately by one who knows from observation We care but very 

little what is done, whether Railroads or Plank Roads; but let us in 

all faith have something We observe that the commissioners of the 

'Milan and Richland Plank Road Company,' are to meet at Milan on the 
28th inst. to open the bucks and receive subscriptions to the capital 
stock of the company. We hope ere long to hear something more upon 
this subject by a gentleman now in Canada for the purpose of examining 
their roads thoroughly." (12) 

1735 ■ H Mar. 26:3/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Farmer" says: I 
observed in the HERALD of Mar. 21 an article from the Milan TRIBUNE 
on the subject of plank roads. 

George Geddes, Esq., of Camilus, N. Y., visited Canada for the purpose 
of examining plank roads. He stutes that on the great road from Toronto 
to Kingston, there are 14 miles of planks. They were laid eight years 
ago. and are 16 feet long and 3 inches thick, on four sills four inches 
square, fastened by one spike in each end of the plank. 

My Canadian friends say that ten years is settled as the duration of 
plank roads. Geddes says the hemlock planks wore out in eight years. 
This may be due to the increase in travel. 

The principle that a bare majority shall have power to force payment 
for projects in which the minority have no faith, is the main object for 
consideration with those on whom the burden rests. 

Will the citizens of Cleveland be gulled by a few self interested 
individuals who may have a large number of city lots to sell, and wish 



308

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1736 - 1737 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd)

thus to raise the price, and before these bonds are paid, and without 
paying much increased taxes, dispose of said lots, leaving the purchaser 
in the boat to pay the bonds, after paying perhaps double the value of 
the lots? You may say this insinuation is unfair; but is it not a 
charitable one? For who, except some speculator, can wish our citizens 
loaded with unnecessary debts? thus mortgaging their property to the day 
of judgment, when execution may sell them out of house and home. 

"Every intelligent man must admit that a railroad is the best kind 
yet known for this location. They have been thoroughly tested, and 
stock investments can be obtained more easily than for any other." (21) 

1736 - H Mar. 29; ed:2/2,3 - As it is about time to "work the roads" 

we copy from the last Warren CHRONICLE an excellent communication from 
the Hon. Elisha Whittlesey, which is deserving the attention of Supervisors 
and others who have the direction of repairing roads. 

Mr. Whittlesey says: If my observations are correct, we err frequently 
in two particulars in constructing and repairing roads. The first is 
annually ploughing and scraping the ground into a narrow sharp ridge. 
Travel is confined to one track principally and every cavity and rut, 
from the closeness of the earth, retains the water and in a short time 
the wheels sink below the original surface of the ground. Having waded 
through mud for the most of the year, the process of ploughing and scraping 
is repeated each succeeding spring. If care had been taken to drain off 
the water, and no more earth had been scraped than was necessary to fill 
up the holes and inequalities and give the road a slightly convex form, 
leaving sufficient breadth between the ditches for several tracks, the road 
would have been smooth and solid for most of the year and would have 
required little or no labor for its repair. (16) 

1737 - H Apr. 3:2/1-4 - The subject of plank roads is now attracting much 
attention in northern Ohio. Frequent reference is made to similar roads 
constructed by our Canadian neighbors. We are able to present an account 
of the plank roads in Canada by Charles Whittlesey, who, in a report to 
Messrs. Samuel Starkweather, Prentis Dow, and J. F. Allen, a committee 
appointed in behalf of the citizens of Cleveland, says: 

There are newly constructed plank roads, from Hamilton to Port Dover 
a distance of 36 miles; and between London and Brantsford, 57-1/2 miles: 
37-1/2 miles of this distance is planked and in use. The roads were 
introduced by R. H. Killaly, Esq., and are said to have been derived from 
Russia. I had the honor to meet C. S. Gzowski, the engineer upon the 
works I have mentioned, and accompanied him on a tour of inspection over 
them. The cost of the road was: $18 to $20 per 1,000, for planks; 
stringers, $14; lineal measure, grubbing, and grading, $400; laying plank 
same as before, cost per mile about $3,500. 

It is evident that the limit to the duration of plank roads is not the 
surface wear, but the decay by rot. There are two important questions, 
as yet not settled by experience, - their duration, and their profit. 
For the road in contemplation by the citizens of Cuyahoga, Medina, and 
Wayne counties, if made of wood, it will be probably taken from the 



309

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1738 - 1739 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

adjacent lands, and be principally oak. The cost will be about $350 per 
mile. For a plank road, the strength of timber is not of so much conse- 
quence as its durability. 

To determine the relative value of plank and stone roads, the expense 
of repairs as well as of construction should be known. The question of re- 
pairs is not settled by experience, but for five years they must, if prop- 
erly built, be very light. 

Good roads are not merely a convenience; they are not only advanta- 
geous but indispensable, to the pecuniary interest of a country, and have a 
direct influence upon the state of intelligence among a people. If the 
influence of roads upon the condition of a people is so prodigious, ought 
there not to be among us a greater interest in this branch of internal im- 
provement? 

Our oak roads will doubtless out-last the Canada pine as to weather 
rot; on the other liand, our teams, being heavier, will cause more injury 
to the road. I think however, that a road of oak, well built, would last 
eight years, and at the end of that time it would require replanking. 
The repairs would be cheaper than those of Canadian roads. 

The Canadian system of keeping gates is worthy of consideration. 
Instead of gate-keepers being appointed, the gates are sold annually to 
the highest bidder. The tolls are collected by the mile. The superinten- 
dence of rodds is simplified and the accountability of agents is made more 
certain by this system. 

If the committees discover any important omissions in the above state- 
ments which I can supply, they will be filled up with pleasure at any 
time upon request. (70) 

1738 - H Apr. 7; ed:2/l - We publish today what we are not quite sure is 
a correct copy of the act incorporating the Plank Road co. by way of 
Wadsworth to Wooster. but it is not materially different from the law as 
passed. The charter for a road to the same place by way of Harrisburgh 
is similar to this, with the exception of the mode of assessing and col- 
lecting damages. 

"It is of so much consequence to get early information before the pub- 
lic respecting these charters that we venture to print the Bill as reported 
for the act as passed, confident that the difference is not greater than 
we have above stated, and when the official statutes arrive we can and 
will correct if necessary." (3) 

1739 - H Apr. 7:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Cleveland City" says: 
"Matters are now brought to a state when the people interested in good 
roads from Cleveland, south, can act if they will act. 

"The agitation of the subject, the petitions to the Legislature, the 
lobbying at Columbus, the Charters, the information; all the preliminaries, 
are gone through with and the way is clear for action. Is anything to 
be done or shall this vital measure be suffered to die away after expend- 
ing so much in the preparatory steps?" (10) 



310

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1740 - 1741 

ROADS &amp; HIGHWAYS (Cont'd) 

1740 - H Apr. 9:3/1 - Supervisors of Highways. - The following Super- 
visors for Cleveland township, were elected on the 7th inst. 

District No. 1... .Samuel Cozai, District No. 2.... Ira Bristol, 
District No. 4.... Samuel Erwin, District No. 5.... John Jones, District 
No. 7.. ..Valentine Dimick. i 

There having been no election of Supervisors in District No. 3 and 
6, the Trustees appointed Benjamin Crawford for No. 3, and David Long 
for No. 6. (verbatim) (2) 

1741 • H Apr. 30:2/4 - Notice is hereby given, to the Stockholders of the 
Wayne, Medina and Cuyahoga Turnpike Company, that the annual election of 
said Company, for the choice of seven Directors, and also, for the trans- 
action of such other business as may be before them, will be held at the 
Court House in the town of Medina, on Monday the 26th day of May next, 

at two o'clock P.M. Cyrus Spink, Pres't. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Streets 



311

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1742 - 1749 

PLACEHOLDER

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES 

1742 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/3 - Mrs. Gold's School will reopen after Christ- 
mas holidays, on Thursday, the 2d of January. (1) 

1743 - H Jan. 21; ed:2/3 - A bill making important changes in the laws 
regulating the common school system of Ohio has passed the senate. It 
provides for the repeal of the act of 1840, abolishing the office of 
state superintendent. W. H. McGuffey of Cincinnati is to fill the post 
of superintendent-in-chief, supported by a board of education composed 
of eight members. 

"The bill so far as it goes, is a good one, and will work well for 
Ohio." (6) 

1744 - H Jan. 22:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Free Schools" says: 
I noticed with much pleasure, a short time since, a communication in 
the HERALD calling attention to the globes for schools, manufactured by 
Josiah Holbrook. He is the author of the lyceum system and is well 
known as a most efficient advocate and friend of popular education. 

"The object of this communication is to call the attention of the 
public, and especially of Managers and Teachers, to the balance of the 
list of very useful articles prepared by Mr. Holbrook for the use of 
the schools, specimens of which may be seen at the Prospect st. School 
House. The Tellurium manufactured by Mr. H. is a beautiful article and 
is well worth the price of the whole lot." (11) 

1745 - H Feb. 1; adv:2/4 - The 2d term of Mr. Earl's School will commence 
on Monday, Feb. 3d, in the basement of the M. E. Church, on St. Clair-st. 

(1) 

1746 - H Feb. 5; ed:3/l - A petition, very numerously signed by our cit- 
izens', has been sent to the Legislature asking for the repeal of that 
portion of the City charter which prohibits the City Council from levy- 
ing more than one mill on the dollar for the support of Schools. We 
think this relic of barbarism has long enough disgraced our city char- 
ter. We hope the prayer of the petitioners may be granted, as we know 
the alteration prayed for is earnestly desired by a large majority of 
the tax payers and voters of the city. (verbatim) (2) 

1747 - H Feb. 14:3/1 - In the Ohio senate Kelley of Cuyahoga county on 
Feb. 11 reported a bill to authorize the authorities of Cleveland to 
levy an additional tax for school purposes. 

The bill to incorporate the Millersburgh and Wooster Plank Road co. 
was ordered to be read a third time. (1) 

1748 - H Mar. 3:2/4 - The next quarter of Mrs. Day's School, will com- 
mence on Monday, March 3d. (verbatim) (1) 

1749 - H Mar. 3:2/4 - The next quarter of Mrs. Gold's School will com- 
mence on Wednesday, the 5th of March. (verbatim) (1) 



312

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1750 - 1756 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES (Cont'd) 

1750 - H Mar. 17; adv:2/4 - City Schools. - Public examinations will be 
held during the present week, as follows: Male Dep't. Prospect-st. 
School, (1st Ward) Tuesday, at 2 P.M. - female Dep't. Rockwell-st. 
School, (2nd Ward) Thursday, 2 P.M. 

All interested in the cause of popular education are invited to at- 
tend. (1) 

1751 - H Mar. 26:2/4 - Notice to carpenters. - Sealed Proposals will be 
received until Saturday, at 9 A.M. for making 66 school desks, and re- 
moving the partition wall from the 2d story of the Rockwell-st. School 
House, at the Counting Room of C. Bradburn &amp; Co. where plans and speci- 
fications may be seen. C. Bradburn, for Board of Managers. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1752 - H Mar. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 24, the board 
of school managers was authorized to alter the Rockwell st. school house 
after the manner of the one situated on Prospect st. Proposals to be 
issued and cost not to exceed $150. 

The council adopted a resolution appointing as school managers R. T. 
Lyo 1, Charles Bradburn, Madison Kelloy and George Willey, Madison Kelley 
to be acting manager. (2) 

1753 - H Apr. 7; adv:2/4 - Young ladies school. - On the 10th of April 
Miss F. C. Fuller designs to open Ruoms on the west side of the Public 
Square, for the reception of Pupils in pursuit of the following branches 
of Education. Introductory department, $3; primary class, $5; junior 
class, $6; senior class, $7. 

Extra charges for Latin, French, German, Drawing, Watercolor Paint- 
ing, Oil Painting, Music, etc. Experienced teachers are engaged as 
associates with the Principal and will have a mutual interest in the 
School. (4) 

1754 - H Apr. 9; adv:2/4 • English School. R. Fry will open a Select 
School in the Brick Building, formerly known as Hancock Block, corner 
of Superior and Seneca-sts., i^m Monday, the 21st inst. School Rooms 
over Willey &amp; Gary's Law Office; they are large, airy and well lighted. 
Terms - From $3 to $5 a quarter. Scholars received at any time, and 
charged from the time they commence to the end of the quarter. 

Reference: J. W. Allen, L. C. Turner, M. Barnett, J. A. Harris, 
P. M. Weddell, Reuben Sheldon, E. S. Root, James F. Clark. 

Mr. Fry can be seen at his School Room from 10 A.M. to 12 o'clock, 
M., each day after the 13th inst. (2) 

1755 - H Apr. 24:2/4 - The city council on April 22, adopted a resolu- 
tion not to accept the resignation of Charles Bradburn as school manager, 
and that he be requested to continue. (1) 

1756 - H May 24; adv:2/4 - Cleveland Seminary. - The semi-monthly 
reviews of this School will commence on Friday next. 



313

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1757 - 1760 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES (Cont'd) 

The parents and friends are earnestly requested to call any time from 
9 to 10 A.M. and from 2 to 5 P.M. 

Miss Fuller {the Superintendent of this School) has from long prac- 
tice found the "review system" far superior to the formally attending 
quarterly examinations, and to all who will give the subject a few mo- 
ments reflection, the reason for this decision will appear too obvious 
to need further remark. (verbatim) (1) 

1757 - H May 26; adv:2/4 - The summer term of Mrs. Day's School will 
commence on Wednesday, the 21st inst. 

The services of a competent assistant and an experienced teacher of 
Penmanship are secured. (1) 

1758 - H June 12:2/1 ■ In a letter to the editor, Franklin says: Amid 

the many scenes enjoyed while in your quiet Rus-in-urbe, none have pleased 
me quite as well as my frequent visits to your public and private schools. 

"Citizens of Cleveland, measure not your interest in these seminaries 
of learning by the mere consideration of dollars and cents, but let the 
influence of your living presence and kindly counsel be seen and felt - 
encouraging those already good to deeds of nobler worth, and stimulating 
those now behind to greater effort, and to a certain striving to be truly 
great. Yes, let but the children in the school -room and elsewhere know 
and feel that you, their natural and appointed guardians, seek their 
highest good, and who can measure the result?" (4) 

1759 - H June 23; ed:2/4 - We have already taken occasion to advert to 
some mistakes not infrequently committed in a course of early instruc- 
tions. In addition, we have a few remarks to offer upon school govern- 
ment. Everyone who has given this subject a moment's consideration must 
have observed, with no slight satisfaction, that time has evinced a 
gradual reform, yet we are compelled to admit that there is space for 
improvement. It is yet to be learned by not a few that some boys are 
not the only requisites to constitute a school. We believe that no one 
thing has more to do with the advancement of a scholar than the manner 
of government. Nor does this have to do only with mental improvements. 

When a teacher understands those with whom he has to do, he may shape 
his course of discipline accordingly. He who would, but cannot, must 
not meet the retribution of him who can, but will not. Industry must 
receive its rewards and encouragements and become an example to indolence. 
Let scholars see the fairness and equity of the instructor; let them feel 
that they may expect just what they deserve, and obedience will no longer 
be a task nor the offspring of fear, but prompted by love and respect. 
(14) 



1760 - H July 1:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, Franklin says: .Much 
is said about school government and many prescribed forms and dogmas 
are laid down by the inexperienced and visionary, and though they may 
outwardly appear beautiful, yet in practice they are shorn of all their 
glory. As important as is this subject, family government ought first 






314

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1761 - 1766 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES (Cont'd) 

to be examined and when fully established, much of the difficulty of 
school government would disappear forever. "Bonaparte, when asked, 
'What does France most need?' truthfully and laconically replied, 'Good 
Mothers.' And is it less so now? - Let the Pulpit and the Press exam- 
ine well this subject, and give to each, to all, an answer as the case 
demands; for universally good 'School Government' can never be enjoyed 
without good 'Family Government,' and good 'Family Government' can 
never be maintained without 'Good Mothers. '" (5) 

1761 - H July 12:2/4 - The next term of Mr. Arey's Academy will commence 
on Monday, 28th of July. It will be opened each morning with a general 
exercise upon Modern History. (verbatim) (1) 

1762 - H July 12:2/4 - Mrs. Hamilton's Preparatory School in the base- 
ment of the M. E. Church, St. Clair- st., for boys under ten years of 
age will commence for the Summer Term on Wednesday, the 19th day of 
July inst. The course of instruction is thorough, and the room is cool 

and pleasant. (verbatim) (1) 

1763 - H July 22:2/4 - The 2d term of Mr. Fry's School will commence on 
Monday, July 28th. School hours from 9 A.M. to 12 M., and from 2 to 5 
P.M. The first half hour each afternoon will be devoted exclusively to 
writing. Those wishing to attend to this branch solely, or to any one 
separate study taught, will be accommodated and charged accordingly. 

Recitation in English Grammar at 4 P.M. 

School rooms the same as last quarter, corner of Superior and Seneca- 
sts., 2d story, (verbatim) (1) 

1764 - H July 22:2/4 - Cleveland Seminary. - The 30th of July, the ad- 
vantages of this School will again be presented for the benefit of pu- 
pils in its three departments, as arranged in its circular. The liberal 
patronage granted this school last quarter enables Miss Fuller, the 
Principal, to locate every advantage in it which may be enjoyed by any 
school on the Western Reserve. 

Pupils may apply to the Principal for board, which may be obtained for 
$1.50 or $2 per week. (verbatim) (1) 

1765 - H July 28:2/4 - The fall term of Mrs. Day's School will commence 
on Monday, September 1st. 

The services of an experienced teacher in Penmanship and a competent 
assistant are secured. (verbatim) (1) 

1766 - H Aug. 15:2/4 - Classical and English School. The subscriber 
will commence the fall term of his School on Monday, Sept. 1st, in the 
Brick Building, lately erected en Euclid-st., a few doors east of the 
public square. He will devote the whole building and grounds to the 
purposes of the school, and he is confident that by his assiduous en- 
deavors to improve the mind and morals of his pupils, he will be able to 



315

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1767 - 1771 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES (Cont'd) 

satisfy every reasonable expectation. 

Having engaged the services of an able and experienced assistant, he 
is prepared to accommodate a younger class of pupils than he has hitherto 
received. 

The terms will be 11 weeks and the prices of tuition $4, $6 and $8 per 
term, according to the age and studies of the pupil. - W. D. Beattie. 
(verbatim) (2) 

1767 - H Aug. 20; ed:2/l - Most of our flourishing villages of the West- 
ern Reserve are favored with institutions and seminaries of learning, 
generally well conducted and well supported. They are beacon lights of 
knowledge to the youthful minds of the west. 

Typicalof these is the Huron institute at Milan, 0. Its student 
body numbers 159, of which one-third are ladies. Henry W. Williams, 
A.M., is principal. 

"Long may the spirit which seeks to educate every child be fostered 
and aided by salutary laws, and a liberal tone of public opinion." (4) 

H Sept, 9; ed:3/l - See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections - Cleveland &amp; Cuyahoga 

1768 - H Oct. 6:2/4 - The fall term of Mrs. Hamilton's Preparatory School 
will commence on Monday, the 13th of October inst., in the basement of the 
M. E. Church St. Clair-st. 

The course of instruction, which consists of the usual English branches, 
including writing, is thorough; and a charge is made for each pupil from the 
time of entering the School to the end of the term. (1) 

1769 ■ H Oct. 20; adv:2/4 - Cleveland Seminary. - The winter term will 
comTience November 2. The former building has been enlarged for the ac- 
commndation of 60 or 70 pupils, and competent teachers will be ready to 
give instruction in every mechanial and mental branch of female educa- 
tion. Ladies desiring lessons exclusively in drawing and painting can 
take them from the principal of the school daily. Board can be had for 
$1.50 per week. Apply to Principal, Miss Fuller, Ontario st. (2) 

1770 - H Oct. 20; ed:3/l - Cleveland Seminary. - With pleasure we refer 
parents and guardians to the advertisement of this institution. Pleasant 
and convenient rooms have been provided for a large number of pupils, and 
the experienced Principal will spare no effort or expense to make the 
school one of the best in Ohio. The course of instruction is very thorough, 
and competent teachers are engaged in every desired branch of female educa- 
tion, (verbatim) (1) 

1771 - H Oct. 21; adv:2/4 - Mrs. Charles Fitch proposes to open a School 
for children under the age of 12 years, on the 1st Monday of November, 
three doors west of Erie, on St. Clair-st. (verbatim) (1) 



316

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1772 - 1778 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES (Cont'd) 

1772 - H Oct. 23; adv:2/4 - Mrs. Gold being obliged by ill health to 
discontinue her School, the young Ladies having Books there are requested 
to call and get them. (verbatim) (1) 

1773 - H Nov. 1:2/4 - The third term of Mr. Fry's School will open No- 
vember 3. Terms: from $3 to $5 per quarter. (1) 

1774 - H Nov. 12; adv:3/2 - Classical and English School. The next term 
of the subscriber's school on Euclid St., will commence on Monday, Nov. 
17th. Price of tuition, from $4 to $8 per term. W. D. Beatie. 
(verbatip) (1) 

1775 - H Nov. 12; adv:2/4 - Brooklyn Centre Academy. The winter term 

of this institution commences on Monday, Dec. 1, under car of Charles ~^ 
H. Churchill, A.B. principal, and Miss Mary J. Turner, principal of the 
female department, and Mrs. E. Saunders, teacher of French, and instru- 
mental Music. 

Tuition: English - $3 per quarter; Language - $4; Vocal Music - $1; 
French - $5; Piano Forte - $10. 

Board may be obtained in good families in the village at prices from 
$1.25 to $1.50. A. Ingham, President. (2) 

1776 - H Nov. 17; ed:3/2 - We would call the attention of the youths of 
the city to the notice of an Evening School to be opened this evening by 
.Messrs. Freese and Fry. They are both known to be gentlemen possessing 
superior qualifications for teaching, affording to those whose occupa- 
tions during the day prevent their attention to mental improvement, an 
opportunity that seldom occurs. (verbatim) (2) 

1777 - H Nov. 29:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Parent" says: I 
have sent one child to Mrs. Fitch's school on tiiC south side of St. 
Clair St., and am satisfied that .Mrs. F. is well qualified for the under- 
taking. In addition to intructions in letters, she teaches her female 
pupils the art of needle-work, and in this way promotes those habits of 
industry so necessary to good morals and character. "I do not wish to 
disparage our excellent public or private schools, but 1 have asked a 
small portion of your useful paper to present the foregoing facts, to 

ask the benevolent who have children of the requisite age, if they will 
not send them, and thus enable the widow and the fatherless to derive 
their support from one who prefers to tax her own energies, to asking it 
as a charity." (3) 

H Dec. 18:2/2 - See Libraries &amp; Librarians 

Teachers 

1778 - H Apr. 1:2/4 - Teachers notice. The Board of Examiners for Cuy- 
ahoga County will hold their next quarterly Examination of Common School 



317

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1779 • 1784 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES - Teachers (Cont'd) 

TeRchf^rs on Tuesday the 8th day of April next, commencing at 10 o'clock 

A.M., in the basement of the Stone Church. 

Teachers are particularly requested to attend, as the Board are de- 
sirous of dispensing with the necessity of private examinations. 

By order of the Board, J. W. Gray,' Clerk. (2) 

1779 - H Aug. 21:2/4 - Notice to Teachers. - There will be an examina- 
tion of applicants for the City Schools, at the Prospect-st,, School 
House to-morrow, (22d) at 2 o'clock, P.M. Per order of Board of Mana- 
gers, C. Bradburn. (verbatim) (1) 

1780 - H Oct. 7:2/5 - The board of common school examiners for Cuyahoga 
county have set the first Saturday of November, 1845, and the first 
Saturdays of January, April and July of 1846 as the dates of the quar- 
terly examinations at the Prospect st. school house. Candidates will 

be required to manifest a thorough acquaintance with orthography. They 
will be tested in reading, writing, etc., and certificates for teaching 
will be given only to those who make their ability evident. 

Reading tests will be from the ECLECTIC FOURTH READER; arithmetic 
questions will be taken from ADAMS' NEW ARITHMETIC. 

The board of examiners will be: Andrew Freeze, James D. Cleveland, 
and Nicholas Bartlett, (4) 

1781 - H Oct. 13; ed:2/2 - A meeting of the Teachers institute is sched- 
uled for Oct. 22, at Chardon, 0. The recent session at Sandusky awak- 
ened much interest among teachers, and another interesting gathering is 
expected. 

"All teachers and persons preparing to teach, will be profited by 
attending." (2) 

1782 • H Nov. 21:2/4 - C. Bradburn, member of the board of public schools, 
announces examinations of the city's schools will be held thus: Erie st. 
school, Nov. 21; Rockwell school, male and female departments, Nov. 24, 
25, and 27; St. Clair st. school, all departments, Nov. 24 and 25; Pros- 
pect s^ school, Nov. 27, 28, and 29; Bethel school, Nov. 29. (2) 

1783 - H Dec. 10:2/4 - The teachers of Cuyahoga county, and other friends 
of ducation, will hold a convention at East Cleveland on Dec. 27, for 

the purpose of organizing a teachers association. (2) 

1784 - H Dec. 31:3/2 - Delegates from several townships in the county met 
in East Cleveland on Dec. 27 to attend the sessions of the teachers' con- 
vention. Preliminary organization saw the election of Oliver Arey as 
chairman, and Andrew Freese as secretary. 

The object of the meeting was to organize a county association of 
teachers, and to this end Messrs. Laman, Ford, and Dickson were appointed 
a committee to draw up a constitution. 



318

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1785 - 1790 

SCHOOLS &amp; SEMINARIES - Teachers (Cont'd) ' 

Election of officers resulted thus: H. E. Whipple, president; Richard 
Fry, of Cleveland, and 13 others, vice presidents; J. J. Laman, record- 
ing secretary; and Andrew Freese, corresponding secretary. On a motion 
a committee of five was named to examine and recommend textbooks to be 
used in the county's district schools. The committee was composed of 
Messrs. Fr&gt;, Brooks, Freese, Whipply, and Laman. 

The group will henceforth be officially titled, "Cuyahoga County As- 
sociation of Teachers and Friends of Popular Education." The next meet- 
ing is scheduled for Newburgh, for the last Saturday in January, 1846. (8) 

Text Books 

1785 • H July 2; adv:3/5 - Comstock's MINERALOGY adapted to the use of 
Schools and private students, for sale by M. C. Younglove. (1) 

1786 - H Aug. 19:2/4 • H. F. Wilcox would beg to introduce M. F. Cowdery 
as his successor for the exhibition, explanation, and introduction of 
"Mitchel's outline maps" and "Winchester's System of Theoretical and 
Practical Penmanship" in all counties of the Western Reserve. Cowdery 
has been connected with the Western Reserve Teachers' seminary at Kirt- 
knd, 0. (2) 

1787 - H Nov. 10; adv:2/4 - Goodrich's NEW NATIONAL GEOGRAPHY, de* 
signed for the higher classes in district and select Schools with over 220 
engravings, 33 maps and a Globe Map, on a new plan. The form of this 
work is quarto, showing at one view the maps, descriptive text, and en- 
gravings on the same page. 

Teachers and Country Merchants supplied. M. C. Younglove. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1788 - H Nov. 12:3/1 - M. C. Younglove has on sale ELEMENTARY OUT- 
LINE OF MENIAL PHILOSOPHY FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS by Lyman W. 
Hall. This elementary treatise, designed for use in schools and academies, 
is highly recommended by Professor Nott, Professor Barrows, and Mr. Beattie 
of this city, (2) 

1789 - H Nov. 15; ed:2/2 - S. C. Goodrich, familiarly known to eVery in* 
telligent youth in the land as Peter Parley, has prepared a NATIONAL 
GEOGRAPHY for schools, with maps, engravings, index, and pronouncing 
dictionary of proper names. "It is Peter Parley's crowning work in a 
popular career of interesting and improving the minds of American youths." 

(4) 
1790 - H Dec. 20; ed:2/l - New School Books. - THE PICTORIAL SPELLING 
BOOK, By Rensslaer Bently, published by Pratt, Woodford &amp; Co. New York, 
appears well adapted for teaching, and must prove a very inviting book 
to such as "lisp their A. B.C." The typography and pictorial embellish- 
ments are very neat. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Colleges &amp; Universities; Education 



319

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1791 - 1794 

PLACEHOLDER

SCIENCE &amp; TECHNOLOGY 

1791 - H Jan. 30:2/2 - The bill before the Senate yesterday relating to 
The Smithsonian institution was prepared by Choate, and differs materi- 
ally from the bill of Tappan of Ohio. It proposes that the vice presi- 
dent, chief justice of the Supreme Court, three senators, three repre- 
sentators, and seven others to be selected by Congress, shall be the 
board of managers - of the Smithsonian institution. The important 
section of the bill relating to the library provides a sum designed to 
carry out a permanent and effectual diffusion of knowledge among men. 
Jared P. Kirttand of Ohio will be one of the board. (5) 

1792 - H Feb. 25; ed:3/l - Boon has constructed a self -moving machine 
which he contends solves the secret of perpetual motion. The power is 
obtained on the natural principles of expansion and contraction by at- 
mospheric changes, which, he claims, enables him to keep a spring, that 
propels a set of wheels, perpetually wound up. It is on exhibition at 
the American. 

"Ingenious brains have been racked we suppose from the creation down 
to discover and apply perpetual motion to machinery, but the multitudes 
of attempts to construct perpetual self-moving machines have been proved 
failures by the great test of time." (2) 

1793 - H Dec. 20:2/1 - The Florentine academicians maintain that water 
is not compressible. The assertion has been so oft repeated that even 
some men of science ^till suppose it to be correct. The statement, how- 
ever, is erroneous. 

Professor St. John of the Cleveland Medical college proceeded yester- 
day to demonstrate the properties of water, and by means of Oersten's 
apparatus which we believe is not in the laboratory of any other chemist 
in this country, rendered it manifest that water is elastic and compress- 
ible. So striking indeed were the results that not a member of the med- 
ical class of 160 could entertain a reasonable doubt on the subject. (3) 

SECTIONALISM 

1794 - H Mar. 6:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "X." says: ■ "The Con- 
stitution and Liberty lie bleeding at the feet of Slavery and Corruption." 
So says your Washington correspondent, "Franklin," in your last evening's 
paper, and 1 quote it only to suggest that he should have added "Democ- 
racy" to "Slavery and Corruption." 

I deprecate above all things else, with reference to the continuance 
of our union, the creation of more sectional distinctions; and if you 
will look at the votes in the Senate you will see that the Democracy of 
the free states had as much to do with the enactment of this villainous 
scheme as had the slave states themselves. 

"The South is not a hundreth part as much to blame for this flagrant 
violation of the Constitution as are the North and West?" 

(HERALD) "And we have the proud satisfaction of recording the fact 
so honorable to the integrity of the Whigs South, East and West, that 
but a single Whig in the House Mr. Dellett of Alabama, voted for the 



320

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1795 - 1801 

SECTIONALISM (Cont'd) 

Senate amendment of the Texas resolutions. But two Locofocos voted 

against it, R. Davis, of New York and John P. Hale of N. H." (9) 

1795 - H Aug. 16; ed:2/l - An analysis of the U. S. House vote on the 
defeated lake appropriations bill shows that only six "aye" votes came 
from below the Mason-Dixon line; all six being Whig votes. New Hamp- 
shire and Connecticut representatives were also all against the measure, 
they being Locofocos. 

"How long must we lament the perfect subserviency of the North to the 
South - how long will the poor tools of slavery and Texas in the Loco- 
foco ranks here at the North sacrifice everything to party, and bow down 
in humble obedience to their masters at the South, who go their death 
against our Lake Harbors and all Northern interest, blinded by the dust 
of their 'peculiar institution.'" (4) 

SEEDS &amp; BULBS 

1796 - H July 1; adv:2/5 - 100 Bu. Buckwheat Seed rec'd from Buffalo, 
and for sale cheap for cash at W. Powell's Store. West end of City 
Buildings. (I) 

1797 - H July 1; adv:2/6 • The subscribers have just rec'd by Express 
a fresh supply of excellent Turnip Seed of various kinds, for sale by 
the lb. or in smaller quantities, to which they would particularly call 
the attention of the farmers. J. Stair &amp; Son. Cleveland Seed Store. 

(1) 

1798 - H July 1; adv:4/l - Cleveland Seed Store, warehouse C, 93 Superi- 
or street, selling garden, flower, and field seeds: cabbage, cauliflower, 
onion, radish, etc. J. Stair &amp; Son, proprietors. Seeds largely from 
England and from best N. Y. establishments. (3) 

1799 - H Oct. 17:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Subscriber" says: 
Can some of your HERALD readers suggest a mode of preserving sweet 
potatoes for spring use - that is, for planting in spring? (1) 

1800 - H Oct. 18:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, J. L. Standart says: 

In reply to an inquiry in your paper yesterday relative to sweet potatoes, 
I would say to keep them in a dry place as late as they can be kept from 
freezing. Then pack them in dry sand and keep in a warm place until 
the last of March; next put them in a hot-bed and sprout them, and plant 
the sprouts as soon as they are safe from frost. 

"A choice article for Winter keeping (just received) can be found at 
37 Merwin st." (2) 

SHAVING EQUIPMENT 

1801 - H Jan. 28; adv:2/4 - Premium Razor Strops. The first premium of 
the Fair of the American Institute has been awarded year after year to 
'^. S?A',ndcrs, for the invention of the Mci^lir Tablet, "ith lour sides - 
No. 1 having the effect of a bone without using oil or water, tde other 



321

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1802 • 1807 

SHAVING EQUIPMENT (Cont'd) 

sides are for keeping the Razor with a fine smooth edge. It is used 
and recommended by the first Cutlers in England, and certified by the 
most scientific gentlemen in this country. Its great celebrity has 
caused counterfeits and imitations innumerable which can easily be de- 
tected by the coarse and imperfect surface of what is called the Tablet 
side, the original being smooth and polished. Manufactory No. 163 
Broadway. New York Wholesale Prices $4-$6-$9-$10-$13 a dozen, differing 
only in outside finish. (verbatim) (2) 

SHERIFF'S SALES, See Auctions &amp; Auctioneers 

SHIPBUILDING 

1802 • H Feb. 15; ed:3/2 - The Cincinnati builders have just launched a 
mammoth boat called the MISSOURI and the GAZETTE says: She will 
measure 1,053 tons. This "bangs out" the big boats heretofore built 

on the western waters. We remember none so large. 

Your puff is a trifle too loud friend GAZETTE. We have an EMPIRE 
on the lakes which measures 1,136 tons, and when you river folks "bang" 
that out, the lakers will try again. You have "big boats," but no 
EMPIRES. (verbatim) (2) 

1803 - H Mar. 11:3/1 - Captain Hart's new propeller VICTORY was launched 
yesterday from the shipyard of Messrs. Sanford and Moses in fine style. 
She sits admirably in the water and will rank number one in this popular 
class of steamers. 

The new propeller PRINCETON, built at Perrysburgh, was launched on 
Saturday last. (Mar. 8) (verbatim) (2) 

1804 - H Mar. 19:3/1 - WING AND WING is the name of a fine brig of 228 
tons burthen, launched on Mar. 15 from the shipyard of Sanford and Moses. 
The vessel is owned by I. 0. Matthews of this city and will be in command 
of Captain Spencer. (1) 

1805 - H Apr. 16:3/1 - The beautiful brig ODD FELLOW, now on the stocks 
at the shipyard of Messrs. S. and A. Turner, builders and owners, will 

be launched on Saturday the 19th instant at half past three o'clock, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1806 - H Apr. 21:3/1 ■ The Messrs. Turner's beautiful brig ODD FELLOW 
was launched from their shipyard on Saturday. (Apr. 19) The I. 0. 0. F. 
association presented the brig with an elegant suit of colors with due cere- 
mony. The ODD FELLOW was rigged ready for sea on the stocks, and the 
launch and ceremonies drew together quite a large assemblage. 

(verbatim) (1) 

1807 - H May 13:3/1 - Steamer HELEN STRONG - This new boat, built at 
Monroe by Capt. G. W. Strong under the immediate supervision of Captain 
Jones was launched on Tuesday. She is 253 tons burthen, is spoken of as 



322

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1808 - 1814 

SHIPBUILDING (Cont'd) 

a perfect structure for strength and speed, will be completed with all 
practicable despatch, and placed under the command of Captain Jones, 
(verbatim) ... (1) 

1808 - H Nov. 17; 3/1 - Captain G. W. Jones is building a propeller for 
Mr. Burkle of about the size of the OREGON, and Messrs. Moses and San- 
ford are about laying the keel of a vessel of 220 tons for the Messrs. 
Richraonds. (verbatim) (1) 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS 

1809 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/3 - Troy and Michigan Six Day Line, operating in 
connection with the Messrs. Hoi lister's steam vessels and a number of 
good sailing vessels on the lakes. A. Seymour, Cleveland, 0., consignee. 

(2) 

1810 - H Jan. 3; adv. 1/3 - D. N. Barney and Company, Storage, Forwarding, 
and Commission Merchants, Cleveland, 0. 

Proprietors of the Reindeer line on the lakes, embracing 16 of the 
largest and best class of Welland canal vessels operating in connection 
with the steamers EMPIRE, CHESAPEAKE, and GENERAL SCOTT, and agents 
of the New York and Toledo line. (4) 

1811 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/3 - J. Gillett, Forwarding and Commission Mer- 
chant, Cleveland, 0. 

Proprietor of a line of first-class vessels on the lakes and agent 
for the Clinton line, Erie canal. (2) 

1812 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/4 - B. F. Smith co.. Forwarding, Produce, and 
Commission Merchants - B. F. Smith and George Woodward, Cleveland, 0. 

Proprietors of the Zanesville line, Ohio canal; B. F. Smith's line - 
Ohio canal; agents for Troy and Ohio and Detroit lines, Erie canal, and 
a line of first-class steam-boats and vessels on the lakes. 

Property shipped with dispatch and advances made when required. (3) 

1813 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/4 - A. Seymour, Forwarding, Produce, and Commis- 
sion Merchant, Cleveland, 0. 

Agent for HcTlister's steam-boats and propellers on the lakes; Troy ■ 

and Michigan six day line on the Erie canal. To operate in connection 
with the above, he has established the Ohio Six Day line on the Erie 
canal. (3) 

1814 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/6 - The new and fast sailing schooner SWALLOW, 
James Smithrick, master, will leave Cleveland for Sault Ste. Marie 
immediately on the opening of navigation. 

For freight or passage apply to the captain on board or to Thomas 
Richmond and Company, foot of Superior lane. (2) 



323

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1815 - 1821 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

1815 - H Jan. 3; adv:2/7 - For Sale or Exchange - The schooner AMAZON, 
seven years old, 180 tons custom house measurement, well found in all 
respects; sails one year old; will be sold on liberal terms, one-half 

of the purchase money will be extended from one to two years. Or, she 
will be exchanged for a light draught center board vessel not over one 
year old of from 150 to 200 tons burden and the difference paid in cash. 
M. B. Scott. (verbatim) (2) 

H Jan. 3; ed:3/l - See Newspapers 

1816 - H Jan. 6; adv:3/l - Lake Navigation - The steamer UNITED STATES 
arrived this morning from Detroit, bound to Buffalo. (verbatim) (1) 

1817 - H Jan. 18:3/1 - Navigation - The brig OWANUNTAH arrived yesterday 
from Fairport. (1) 

1818 - H Mar. 1:3/1 - The steamer ST. CLAIR arrived here from Detroit 
yesterday. The lake is reported free from ice, and we presume a boat 
could reach Buffalo without serious impediment. After only six weeks 
suspension of navigation the lake is again clear, and the ears of our 
citizens are saluted with the welcome "puffs" of steamers. (2) 

1819 - H Mar. 10; adv:2/4 - The new and fast sailing schooner BLUE BELL, 
Captain Capron, will leave Cleveland for Mackinaw, Milwaukee, Racine, 
Southport, Chicago, St. Joseph, and Kalamazoo on the opening of naviga- 
tion. 

The BLUE BELL is a new vessel of 154 tons burthen, and has good ac- 
commodations for passengers. 

For freight (which will be taken at low current rates) or passage, 
apply to the master on board or to Doddridge and Coe, Yellow warehouse, 
third one from pier. (2) 

1820 - H Mar. 12; adv: 2/4 - Buffalo and Chicago - Hollister's line of 
propellers - the HERCULES and SAMSON will on the opening of navi- 
gation cperate regularly through the season, touching at the usual ports. 

The new and splendid propeller PRINCETON of 450 tons in command of 
Captain Pratt will be out early in the season, of which due notice will 
be given concerning the order of sailing. 

For freight or passage apply on board to Captain Robertson of the 
SAMSON; Captain Wheeler of the HERCULES; or to Alexander Seymour 
and Company, Cleveland. (4) 

1821 - H Mar. 22; ed:2/l - One of the most important acts of the last 
Congress as far as the northwestern states are concerned is the follow- , 
ing extending the maritime law over our inland seas: That the district 
courts of the United States shall have, possess, and exercise the same 
jurisdiction in matters of contract and tort arising in, upon, or con- 
cerning steam-boats and other vessels of 20 tons burthen and upward, en- 
rolled and licensed for the coasting trade. 

"It will give new and much needed remedies to sailors, shippers, 



324

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1822 - 1829 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

insurers, and vessel owners, and we doubt not will prove highly conve- 
nient and beneficial to our Lake commerce." (5) 

1822 - H Mar. 28:3/3 - The city council on Mar. 24, adopted a resolution 
to make a new list of rates for the docks and demurrage charge. (1) 

1823 - H Mar. 31:3/1 - The steamer BUNKER HILL, Captain Stanard, arrived 
this morning from Chicago and reported a good deal of ice in the straits 
and above. The Bunker HILL, a staunch and popular boat, leaves for Buf- 
falo this evening at six thirty and will be very apt to break up the ice 
blockade for our Buffalo friends, (4) 

1824 - H Apr. 2:3/1 - The Provincial return of duty paid into the customs 
on wheat entering Canada during the past year was 7,863 pounds, of which 
3,538 pounds was received at Port Colborne, the Lake Erie entrepot of 

the Welland canal. (verbatim) (1) 

H Apr. 5; ed:3/l - See Brass &amp; Copper 

1825 - H Apr. 22:3/1 - The steamer WATERLOO was got off the middle reef 
without injury. (verbatim) (1) 

1826 - H Apr. 26:3/2 • The EMPIRE, the pride of our city and the lakes, 
makes her first trip on Apr. 28. This is a very useful, as well as curi- 
ous piece of machinery, the handiwork of the Cuyahoga Furnace engine 
builJers. Every department is in perfect order and under the management 
of the popular officers who brought out and established the high character 
of the EMPIRE last season. (3) 

1827 - H Apr. 23; adv:2/4 - The splendid steamer EMPIRE will leave Cleve* 
land for Buffalo on Apr. 28 at eight o'clock a.m. On her return she will 
leave Cleveland for Chicago on May 2. 

For freight or passage apply on board or to D. N. Barney and Company. 

(1) 

1828 - H May 10:3/1 - We recently took a stroll over the propeller 
OREGON, which we found in the possession of Capt. A. E. Hart. The 
OREGON is a fine specimen of the propeller class of lake steamers and 
is the product of Cuyahoga mechanics throughout. The boiler was built 

by Thomas Whaley at the Cuyahoga Steam Furnace. The vessel was built by 
Sanford and Moses and is o.vned by Captain Hart, J. M. Woolsey, Kimberly 
and Compiny, Sanford and Moses, and Brayton, Egerton and Natrous. The 
first trip is scheduled to Buffalo on May 12. (6) 

1829 - H May 17:3/1 - The EMPIRE - This favorite of lake travelers passed 
up today with a world of passengers, although owing to the detention of 
the cars a large number who intended to take the EMPIRE lost the oppor- 
tunity, for Friend Gibson says: "As punctuality, and uniform motion 
moves the universe, so moves the EMPIRE westward." (verbatim) (1) 



325

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1830 - 1835 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

1830 - H May 29:3/1 - Steamboat Association - The steamboat interests 
on the lakes have formed an association for the season, the rates of 

fare, we understand, the same as last year. The UNITED STATES, Captain 
Whittaker, always the first to lead off, was the first of the combina- 
tion boats up, and is to be followed by the LEXINGTON and CLEVELAND. 

Later - We understand the fare from Buffalo to Detroit is fixed at 
six dollars, and five dollars between Cleveland and Buffalo - the last 
just one dollar too high. (verbatim) (2) 

1831 - II June 2:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Viator" says: I am 
glad to hear that the steamboat owners have at last formed a combina- 
tion. It is better not only for them but also for the public, as it will 
save the country a vast amount of money and labor that would otherwise 
be nhsolutcly wasted in the operation of many more boats than the busi- 
ness requires. 

Now as an owner of steamboat stock, I suggest to the managers to re- 
vise their rates and to put our fare down to four dollars; and they will 
find it now and hereafter better for all concerned. (5) 

1832 - H June 9; adv:2/5 - For Sale - The well found and good conditioned 
schooner FAVORITE, burthen 163 12/95 tons, will carry 1,600 barrels of 
flour; 8,700 bushels wheat. Terms of sale, $3,000; one-half down and 

the balance in one year with approved security. 

For further particulars apply to Capt. David Wilison, Perrysburgh, 
or E. K. Forbes, Cleveland. (verbatim) (1) 

1833 - FI June 25:2/2 - In a letter to the editor "A Property Holder" 
says: The new propeller PHOENIX is now almost ready for service, and 
the owners have tendered the use of her to the Phoenix Engine co, for a 
pleasure excursion on July 3. The firemen have resolved in making the 
trip a benefit ride. The citizens should take advantage of the occasion 
to enjoy the excursion which will aid the treasury of the company. 

"Let the gallantry and success of these brave fellows in many an hour 
of distress and peril be remembered. Give them a bumper of a benefit; 
and while you are partaking of the pleasure of a trip at this right 
pleasant season, you will be aiding a band of Firemen who never shrink 
from protecting you and yours." (4) 

1834 - H July 1; adv: 1/4 - The steamer INDIANA, Capt. C. C. Roby, will 
leave Cleveland for Toledo and Buffalo until further notice as follows: 
Upward, June 14, 20, 26, July 2, 8, 14, 20, 26, at three p.m.; downward, 
June 16, 22. 28, July 4, 10, 16, 22, 28, at three p.m. 

For freight or passage apply on board or to Pease and Allen. (2) 

1835 - H July 1; adv: 1/4 - Standart, Janes and Company, Forwarding and 
Commission Merchants and Dealers in produce, foot of Superior lane, 
Cleveland, 0. 

Proprietors of the Merchants' line on the Ohio canal and agents for 



326

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1836 - 1839 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

the Merchants' Transportation co. on the Erie canal. 

N. M. Standart, T. M. Janes, S. Clary. (2) 

1836 - H July 1; adv: 1/5 - Hewitt and Lyon, Produce and Commission Mer- 
chants and Forwarders. 

Agents for the New York and Erie line, canal and lake transportation. 

Ship by Eckford line of tow boats leaving foot of Broad st. at five 
p.m. daily. (4) 

1837 - H July 3:3/1 - The beautiful flag prepared by Phoenix Engine co. 
No. 4 for the propeller PHOENIX, was presented to Captain Jones this 
forenoon with due ceremony. The presentation speech was made by Mr. 
Fisher, a member of No. 4, who was briefly replied to by Captain Jones. 
A large concourse of ladies and gentlemen witnessed the ceremony, and a 
numerous party honored No. 4 and the splendid craft with their company 

on a pleasure excursion to Fairport. (verbatim) (2) 

1838 - H July 5:2/4 - A Card to Captain Jones and the owners of the pro- 
peller PHOENIX. 

Permit me, in behalf of Phoenix Engine co. No 4 to tender to you the 
sincere thanks of our company for the valuable services of your beauti- 
ful craft on the late pleasure excursion to Fairport, and be assured 
whether lying in the still waters of our harbor or ploughing the waves 
of old Erie, you have our best wishes; and should your craft while moored 
in our harbor be endangered by the element that we combat, you have only 
to give the alarm to nerve the arm of each member of our company. J. W. 
Fitch, secretary. (verbatim) (2) 

1839 - H July 5:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Observer" says: I was 
one of the number that made up a party of pleasure on an excursion to 
Fairport yesterday on board the new propeller PHOENIX in charge of Capt. 
G. W. Jones, given for the benefit of the Phoenix Fire Engine co. No. 4. 

The PHOENIX is a most beautiful vessel of about 320 tons burthen, is 
165 feet long, has a 23 foot beam, and a ten foot hold; including her 
guards she has a 26 foot beam, this being the largest size vessel that 
can pass the enlarged Wei land canal, for which trade the PHOENIX is de- 
signed. In one respect the PHOENIX differs from all the propellers I 
have ever seen. Her engine is placed midships or nearly so, and she has 
two freight holds, one aft and one forward. She has one engine, a 20 
foot boiler with two furnaces, each five by three feet, 34 main flues 
15 feet long and nine inches in diameter. On the trip yesterday, her 
machinery being new and stiff, she made the downward passage somewhat 
slow. She came up in three hours and 15 or 20 minutes. 

"I am of the opinion she can easily and regularly run ten miles per 
hour; indeed she did yesterday make the first ten miles within that time - 
then making about 60 revolutions to the minute - whereas the average num- 
ber was about 54. She is with all a most splendid sea boat." (15) 



327

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1840 - 1845 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

1840 - H July 8:3/1 - Novel Arrival - The sloop CROWLEY, Captain Acker- 
man, arrived yesterday from Lake Huron with white fish for the captain. 

The CROWLEY is a perfect cockle-shell affair. (verbatim) (1) 

1841 - H July 8; cd: 3/1 - The Detroit ADVERTISER understands that for 
the present one of the lines on Lake Erie is to be discontinued and that 
the Detroit boats will touch at Toledo. 

A correspondent justly complains of the high fare charged by the com- 
bination between Buffalo and Cleveland, and we have heard it intimated 
that the Buffalo and Erie steamboat interests combined in fixing the un- 
reasonable price in order to injure the business of Cleveland. 

"An opposition line on Lake Erie would be liberally patronized, and 
could afford to carry passengers at half combination rates." (3) 

1842 - H July 10:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Honduras" says: I 
notice that there is a general dissatisfaction in your city with the 
rates of fare charged by the steamboat combination between Buffalo and 
Cleveland. There seems to be no good reason to charge five dollars for 
190 miles, while the charge for 320 miles is seven dollars on another 
route. It looks like a direct attack upon Cleveland which ought not to 
be submitted to. 

"Cleveland has the power to remedy the evil if she will. Let them 
call a public meeting and resolve as one man to patronize exclusively a 
line of steamboats between Cleveland and Buffalo; let every business man 
in Cleveland give tlie project his countenance and support, and rely upon 
it a daily line of boats will be supported at reasonable prices. There 
are several new boats now coming out, the owners of which would gladly 
come into such an ar-angement if they could be assured of the patronage 
of Cleveland," (6) 

1843 - H July 12:2/1 - It was reported at Detroit on Thursday (July 10) 
that the combination had raised the steamboat fare from Buffalo to De- 
troit to seven dollars. Al seven dollars it would be proportionately 

less than the fare from Buffalo to Cleveland. (verbatim) (1) 

1844 - H July 14; ed:3/l - The Buffalo COMMERCIAL of July 12 says that 
if the new propeller PHOENIX does not make as good time and give as gen- 
eral satisfaction to her passengers as any similar craft now out, then this 
system may be said to be entirely exploded, for she appears to combine all 
that Erricson, Loper, or any of the early advocates ever designed. 

"The PHOENIX made the passage up from Buffalo against a head wind the 
whole distance in 20 hours and 15 minutes. Her speed is fully equal to the 
average of the steam-boats, and 'her motions' will 'bear to be closely 
watched.'" (3) 

1845 - H July 17:3/1 - A large party of Cleveland ladies and gentlemen 
leave for the west this morning on the queenly EMPIRE. They propose to 



328

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1846 - 1851 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

visit Chicago, and on the return of the boat will stop at Mackinac and 

visit the Sault Ste. Marie. 

No more agreeable excursion can be enjoyed on fresh water during the 
warm season, and the trip is one to be envied. (verbatim) (2) 

1846 - H July 24:3/1 - Propellers OREGON and PHOENIX - The side-wheel 
steamers will have to put up their speed to get out of the way of these 
crack Cleveland propellers. The OREGON came up today ahead of the 
WAYNE, although she left two hours later we are told; and last evening 
the whistle of the PHOENIX announced that she had made the trip round to 
Chicago from this port in ten days. It takes our shipwrights and engine 
builders to give "wooden walls" the "broom." (verbatim) (2) 

1847 - H July 31; ed:3/l - Steamer OREGON - This new and splendid steamer 
was in port yesterday on her first trip to the upper lakes. She belongs to 
the large class of boats, has a very spacious and beautiful main cabin, is 
commodiously arranged, well fitted up and furnished, and combines great 
strength with speed. Captain Randall, the first officer of the OREGON, 

is generally and favorably known to lake travelers. 

(verbatim) (2) 

1848 - H Aug. 2; ed:2/l - There are soon to be seven schooners in ser- 
vice in the Lake Superior trade, following the proposed addition of the 
MERCHANT to the fleet. 

"Quite a fleet, where but a short time ago the sails of a single 
craft were spread to the breeze. The copper speculations may make and 
lose fortunes for many, but Lake Commerce will be greatly benefited by 
the excitement/' (3) 

1849 - H Aug. 2; ed:3/l - Captain I. T. Pheatt is afloat again on his 
favorite boat, the INDIANA. She went out this morning under her old com- 
mander, Messrs. A. R. Cobb and Company having bought out Captain Roby's 
interest. 

The INDIANA is not only a favorite with the public, but is a lucky 
craft in the selection of officers, for two better than Roby and Pheatt 
cannot be found on fresh or salt water. (verbatim) (1) 

1850 - H Aug. 4; ed:2/l - The steamship CAMBRIA arrived at Boston, July 
30, with 95 passengers aboard. She made the trip from Liverpool in 11 
days, five and a half hours. 

"This is some 20 hours quicker than ever before performed by the Cun- 
ard Line." (2) 

1851 - H Aug. 13:3/1 - The engine of the propeller PHOENIX is not very 
seriously damaged, and the fine craft may be expected down in a day or 

two. (verbatim) (1) 



329

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1852 - 1858 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

1852 - H Aug. 16:3/1 - The EMPIRE - This leviathan came in this morning 
from below swarming like a mammoth patent bee palace. A dock loafer, 
sitting on one of the stone posts on the pier, looking intently at the 
living mass of humanity, exclaimed himself - "Well, I reckon that is the 
fa-vor-ite boat of this tall country." (verbatim) (1) 

1853 - H Aug. 16; ed:3/l - A spirit of rivalry has developed between the 
upper lake boats, especially the mammoth sized ones, wherein the crews 
of each vessel pride themselves in their fast voyages and compete for 
record trips. 

"We say then to the officers of our 'floating palaces' stop where you 
are in this dangerous rivalry, before an awful shipwreck robs you of your 
well earned popularity and brings dismay and desolation to the hearth 
stones of hundreds of happy families." 

The late sinking of the KENT by the LONDON near the Canadian coast 
is a result of such unchecked rivalry. (5) 

1854 - H Aug. 18; ed:3/l - We notice the arrival today of a new brig 
built at Oswego, called the ALGOMAH, the Indian name of Lake Superior. 
The ALGOMAIl is a fine looking craft and is commanded by Capt. William 
Morgan. Cargo, hay. (verbatim) (1) 

1855 - H Aug. 28; ed:3/l - The hull and part of the machinery of the 
ERIE have been recovered by a salvaging company, but the safe is not 
in the wreck of the craft. The wreck has been closely examined by 
means of a diving bell, and it is thought there will be little of it to 
gratify curiosity. 

"The recovery of the wreck of this ill-fated steamer bids fair to 
cost more than it will come to." (2) 

1856 - H Aug. 29:3/1 - The steamboat GENERAL WAYNE left here yesterday 
morning, having six canal boats in tow for Toledo. When near Avon, some 
20 miles from here, the wind which had blown freshly for some time, chafed 
the lines so much as to cut them all adrift, and they subsequently beached. 
One was insured in an agency in this city, but the others are believed to 
be without insurance, and will probably be a total loss. No lives lost, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1857 - H Sept. 8; adv:2/5 - For Chicago - The schooner ROANOKE, Corlett, 
master, will leave Cleveland on Tuesday evening next, (Sept. 13) for the 
above port, direct. 

For freight or passage apply to R. Winslow and Company. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1858 - H Sept. 16:3/1 - The brig CUMBERLAND, Captain Seymour, made her 
last trip from this port to Buffalo and back in three days and 19 hours, 
discharged her cargo of 8,100 bushels of wheat, 270 barrels flour, and six 
tons iron and took on board at Buffalo 200 barrels salt and two tons goods, 
(verbatim) (1) 



330

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31. 1845 

Abstracts 1859 - 1865 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

1859 - H Sept. 16; ed:3/l - We are indebted to the swift EMPIRE for the 
Buffalo COMMERCIAL, how many days we cannot say yet, in advance of the 
mail. 

By the way, the EMPIRE takes west this trip people enough to form a 
new state half as populous as Texas. (verbatim) (1) 

1860 - H Sept. 19; adv:2/4 - For Chicago &amp; Intermediate Ports - The new 
staunch top-sail schooner COLUMBIA, with good accommodations for passen- 
gers and freight will leave Cleveland Sept. 20. 

For freight or passage apply to B. F. Smith and Company. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1861 - H Sept. 20; ed:3/l - The extensive purchases of wheat and flour 
on Lake Erie and the upper Great Lakes for Canadian account have made 
the St. Laurence forwarders feel they were having a harvest of profits, ^-, ' 
and they balk at the mere thought of giving up part of the business on 
that noble stream and its canal improvements to others. Thus they are 
prepared to charge exorbitant prices to owners of produce, or to put 
freight prices below their competitors if competition arises. 

"We hope the fight will go on, for 'Monopolists' and 'Combinations' 
when at war with each other render an essential service to the public by 
doing business up well and cheap, and if they will fall below a remuner- 
ating rate for their services, the fault lies entirely with themselves." 

(7) 

1862 - H Oct. 1; adv;2/5 - For Chicago - The schooner ROANOKE, Corlett, 
master, will leave Cleveland Tuesday evening next, Oct. 7, for the above 
port direct. 

For freight or passage apply to R. Winslow and Company. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1863 - H Oct. 16:2/3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Subscriber" says: 
The many accidents on the lakes in which vessels collide in open waters 
prompts me to mention the practice of English vessels in passing each 
other. The pass on the starboard or right hand side. All vessels 
should show lights at sea, preferably two lights on the port bow and one 
on the starboard bow. 

"It is to be hoped that our Legislators will take the above subject 
into consideration, and enact some laws for the guidance of seamen on 
the Lakes." (3) 

1864 - H Oct. 23; ed:2/l - The HIBERNIA arrived at Boston Sunday morning 
(Oct. 19) with Liverpool dates of the fourth. She made the trip in 15 
days and brought out 87 passengers. The general news is of no special 
interest. (verbatim) (I) 

1865 - H Oct. 31; ed:2/2 - The GREAT WESTERN finally arrived safely in 
New York on Oct. 28 after a passage of 16 days and 16 hours from Liver- 
pool. Great anxiety had been felt for her. The news she brings is in 
general thus: "The tone of the British press with regard to America is 
very conciliating, and much of the animosity with which their former 



331

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1866 - 1873 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS ^Cont'd) 

remarks were characterized has abated. The TIMES alludes to our in- 
creasing influence in Oregon without any ill-natured comment." (3) 

H Nov, 3:3/2 - See Weather 

1866 - H Nov. 4:3/1 - The schooner CALEDONIA of Kingston, in attempting 
to make the harbor yesterday afternoon, got below the east pier. She 
hove out an anchor which dragged, and she finally drifted ashore. The 
CALEDONIA was in ballast, and will probably be got off without material 
damage. 

The brig FRANCIS MILLS and schooner AURORA BOREALIS are ashore at 
Huron, and a schooner with a red stern, supposed to be a lower laker, is 
ashore at Chagrin river. (verbatim) (2) 

1867 - H Nov. 5:3/1 - The CALEDONIA of Kingston has been got off the 
beach by the inspector of the North Western Insurance co., Captain Nick- 
erson, and is safe in the river without injury. (verbatim) (1) 

1868 - H Nov. 7; ed:2/l - The U. S. revenue cutter GEO. M. BIBB, a Pitts- 
burgh-built iron craft which left New Orleans last summer, is still 
undergoing repairs at Cincinnati. The vessel's under water screws are 
being changed to side paddle wheels. 

"The half dozen or more Revenue Cutters contracted for by the Tyler 
Administration are likely to prove rather costly experiments." (2) 

H Nov. 21; ed:3/l - See Weather 

1869 - H Nov. 28:2/1 - A large number of vessels made this port during 
the blow of yesterday. The schooner WILCOX was driven against the pier 
so hard as to cause her to sink in the channel. Vessel not materially 
damaged. Cargo, barley, for Pittsburgh. The schooner NICHOLAS BIDDLE 
is reported ashore near Long Point, a total wreck. Cargo also barley, 
(verbatim) (1) 



1870 - H Dec. 3:3/1 - We learn that the steamer CLEVELAND arrived at 
Chicago on Friday, and was to leave on Saturday evening. (verbatim) 



(1) 



1871 - H Dec. 8:3/1 - The steamer CHESAPEAKE arrived yesterday from 
Fairport and the propeller PHOENIX from Buffalo. Our harbor continues 
to remain open. 

The Detroit ADVERTISER says that the weather is extremely cold and 
that there is little prospect for any more navigation. (3) 

1872 - H Dec. 10:3/2 - The steamer CLEVELAND arrived safely at Detroit 
from Chicago. She will probably be laid up at that port for the winter. 

(1) 

1873 - H Dec. 12; ed:3/l - Our friend, William Adair, has purchased the 
propeller CHICAGO of Oswego for the purpose of operating the vessel on 



332

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1874 - 1878 

SHIPPING &amp; SHIPS (Cont'd) 

The route between this city and Sault Ste. Marie next season. 

"The Lake Superior trade is getting to be immense and we are glad 
our enterprising citizens are determined to have a hand in the matter," 



(4) 



1874 - H Dec. 29:3/1 - Our lake shipping will receive a valuable acqui- 
sition from this quarter the coming season. The proprietors of the 
steam-boat EMPIRE have contracted with the Cuyahoga Steam Furnace co. 
for a new engine with a cylinder 45 inches in diameter and a ten-foot 
stroke. (1) 

1875 - H Dec. 30; adv:2/4 - The co-partnership heretofore existing under 
the name of Babcock and Wood, as agents for the Merchants' Transportation 
line between Pittsburgh, Pa., and Cleveland, 0., is this day dissolved by 
mutual consent. P. H. Babcock, William Wood. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Accidents &amp; Disasters - Shipping; Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Insurance; Rivers &amp; Harbors; Shipbuilding; Wholesale Trade - Commission Houses 

SHIPWRECKS. See Accidents &amp; Disasters - Shipping . 

SHOES. See Clothing Trade 

SIGNS &amp; SIGN PAINTING 

1876 - H Oct. 23; adv:2/5 - Sign and Ornamental Painting. Executed in 
a hurry (and well done of course) in the Empire Block by H. P. Hopkins. 

(1) 

SLAVERY 

1877 - H Jan. 29; ed:2/l,2 - The fact that Miss Webster, a New England 
lady of education and responsible standing, was arrested at Lexington, 
Ky., on a charge of aiding and abetting in slave-stealing, and was tried, 
convicted, and incarcerated in the penitentiary, has created considerable 
sensation in the free states. "The evidence in the case has been pub- 
lished in the Louisville JOURNAL, and will satisfy reasonable persons that 
the trial of Miss Webster was impartial, and that under the laws of Ken- 
tucky, the conviction could not be avoided." The jury, after hearing the 
able argument of counsel, retired, and on Jan. 25 brought in a verdict of 
guilty, fixing her punishment at two years imprisonment. (25) 

1878 - H Feb. I; ed:3/2 - In a letter to the Vermont CHRONICLE, a re- ■ 
spectable citizen of Louisville says: I know the real sentiments of 

most of our leading men, and I believe next year a decided step will be 
taken to amend the constitution of Kentucky with a view to the exterpa- 
tion of slavery. It is ruining us as a people, impoverishing us as a 
state, and poisoning our public and private morals. This is an indica- 
tion of the general prevalence of anti -slavery feeling in Kentucky. A 
law was passed in Kentucky in 1833 prohibiting the importation of slaves 
into that state upon any terms. "The effect of the law has been to 



333

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1879 - 1882 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

diminish the relative number of Slaves, and to bring Kentucky nearer 

into a condition in which emancipation might be easily effected." (3) 

H Feb. 24; ed:2/l - See Newspapers 

1879 - H Mar, II; ed:3/2 - Two colored boys, ages 11 and 13, were seized 
in Sandusky a few days since, without any legal process, as runaway 
slaves. Writs of habeas corpus were served upon those having them in 
custody. An examination followed and Judge Farewell freed the boys on 
the ground of want of sufficient proof for legal arrest. 

"We hope the day has gone by when men, women or children can be 
forced under color of law from the free soil of Ohio into hopeless ser- 
vitude." (4) 

1880 - H July 2:3/2 • The Western Presbyterian and Congregational con- 
vention at Detroit adopted unanimously, after a discussion, the follow- 
ing preamble and resolution: Whereas - The convention held at Cleve- 
land, June 20, 1844, did, with great and most desirable unanimity, record 
their solemn and decided testimony against the system of American slavery 
as a great moral, personal, and political evil, threatening the best in- 
terests of our beloved country; it is resolved that this convention 
{covering a still wider field than the one referred to) feels called upon 
deliberately to adopt and reaffirm this decided declaration on this 

great subject, and to work a practical conformity thereto in all benev- 
olent associations and operations throughout the universal Christian 
church. In the prospect of such a blessed consummation, this convention 
heartily rejoices, and for it and as in duty bound, they will unceasingly 
pray. (5) 

1881 - H July 3; ed:3/l - Governor Hammond of "the independent nation 
of South Carolina" said in a recent letter to Clarkson of England that 
"slavery is the cornerstone of our republican edifice" and "I repudiate, 
as ridiculously absurd, the much lauded but nowhere accredited dogma of 
Mr. Jefferson, that 'all men are born free and equal.'" 

Such is a Democrat's talk. "The 'unterrified Democracy' have fur- 
nished another champion and defender of Human Slavery, in the person of 
Gov. Hammond, of the Independent Nation of South Carolina." (2) 

1882 - H July 26; ed:2/l - The people of Maryland are beginning to talk 
and write about slavery. The editor of the Baltimore AMERICAN, one of 
the best papers in the country, has published a pamphlet on "Slavery in 
Maryland." It seems strange to us that the people of Maryland and other 
slave states, have been so long blind to their own best interests. They 
have only to turn to the records of the past, only to look at facts as 
they now exist, to be fully satisfied of the destroying influence of 
slavery. 

"We would that the citizens of this whole country, and especially of 
the slave States, would sit down and calmly and dispassionately examine 



334

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1883 - 1887 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

this great question, in all its bearings and influences, upon the popu- 
lation and prosperity of this Republic." (12) 

1883 - H July 29:2/5 - Abby Kelly, G. L. Stebbins, and S. S. Foster will 
hold a public meeting at Cleveland on Aug. 7 through Aug. 10 inclusive, 
for the discussion of anti-slavery agitation. The sessions will com- 
mence on Aug. 7 at two p.m., and at ten a.m. and two p.m. on each of the 
following days through Aug. 10, (1) 

1884 - H Aug. 1; ed:2/l - Seven years ago this day, 800,000 slaves in 
the West Indies were emancipated from slavery and given their rightful 
freedom by the British. Since that time, the slaveholders have found 
it to their advantage to hire paid instead of slave labor, and the great 
experiment of giving freedom to a numerous slave population has far ex- — 
ceeded the most sanguine expectations of the philanthropists who planned ; 
and excuted it. Especially descriptive of this reborn feeling in the 

West Indies is the book JAMAICA. ITS PAST AND PRESENT STATE, by 
James M. Phi Hippo; the joyous reception tendered emancipation there 
is wondrous to behold. 

"The influence of the example bears with great power on African Slavery 
wherever it exists, and sooner or later the work of emancipation must be 
commenced in the Southern States of this Union. Involuntary servitude 
is at war with the progressive spirit of the age and the world, and what 
American does not feel the tinge of shame on his cheeks when he reflects 
that millions of human beings are slaves, slaves for life, in this boasted 
land of the free." (15) 

1885 - H Aug. 2; adv:2/4 - Mr. Dean, of Berkley, Bristol Co., Mass., will 
lecture on Anti -Slavery, Sabbath next, 3d of August, on the Court House 
Steps, at 6 o'clock, P.M. 

The public are invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

1886 - H Aug. 8; ed:3/2 - Abby Kelly and her reformers are in town, and 
although there was no crowd to witness their first efforts in the Wes- 
lej'an chapel yesterday, the group continues to open its batteries 
against the constitution, the union, slavery, the Whigs, Locofocos, and 
the liberty men. 

"Abby is a good stump orator, and not unfrequently eloquent - ready 
to discuss principles, or bandy sarcasm and ridicule with the refractory 
and the inquisitive.... We advise Third Party men to attend; and if 
Abby will convince them of the'r suicidal course, and yet not dupe them 
into her own, we will acknowledge her a 'clever fellow.'" (4) 

1887 - H Aug. 11; ed:2/l - Miss Abby Kelly and her associates have pre- 
sented their radical views to Cleveland citizens for three days now. 
Speaking in the Wesleyan chapel, they have propounded some of the direst 
attacks on Washington, the constitution, and the churches, and so great 
has been their elocutionary power that their hearers have tolerated these 



335

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1888 - 1890 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

abuses of our most sacred institutions. 

They have preached the disorganization of churches and the dissolu- 
tion of the union as the only possible means of freeing the slaves in 
the south. Emancipation, however, shall go on without the application 
of such radical remedies. 

"Perhaps it is our duty to state, that although Abby Kelly and her 
associates have been allowed to preach something very like treason dur- 
ing the last three days without molestation, yet we believe that there 
is no lack of attachment to our Constitution and respect for its found- 
ers, among our citizens." The resolutions passed by the audience after 
yesterday's Kelly rreeting, disapproving of all such attempts as Abby 
Kelly's to defame the character of American institutions, is proof 
enough of that. (11) 



1888 - H Aug. 19; ed:3/2 - By a provision in the Constitution of Miss- 
issippi, the introduction of slaves into the state, is prohibited after 
the present year. This prohibition extends not only to the introduction 
of slaves as merchandize, but settlers within the state cannot import 
them for their own use. This state of things induced the legislature at 
its last session, to authorize the people to vote on a proposition to 
change this provision. It excites general attention; the New Orleans 
BULLETIN thinks that the popular sentiment is against any change, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1889 - H Aug. 22; ed:2/l - Louisville and other Kentuck papers, espe- 
cially at Lexington, are brimming over with excitement at the possibility 
of mob action following the publishing of a strong anti-slavery editorial 
in Cassius M. Clay's paper, the TRUE AMERICAN. Slave-holders are en- 
raged, and Clay, his will made out, has had a cot installed in the TRUE 
AMERICAN office, where he will keep constant vigil in anticipation of an 
attempt to tear down the newspaper building. It is even hinted that an 
attempt will be made on Clay's life. 

"The demoniac spirit of Slavery seeks to suppress the fearless dis- 
cussion of Truth and the advocacy of Freedom, and to murder the champion 
who has so bravely entereJ the lists in behalf of enslaved millions. - 
Let the South beware. Let a mob of Slave-holders kill Cassius M. Clay, 
and his sacrificial blood will cry from the ground until the whole ac- 
cursed system vf wrong and outrage is swept from the United States." (11) 

1890 - H Aug. 23; ed:3/l - Reports from Maysville, Ky., state that Cas- 
sius M. Clay has effected a compromise at Lexington, Ky. , with the slave- 
holders, following their rising against him, and will move his printing 
press to Cincinnati. 0. 

"We can hardly credit the report after what had previously passed, 
and the determined stand taken by Mr. Clay in defence of the liberty of 
the press in slave-cursed Kentucky." (5) 



336

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1891 - 1893 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

1891 - H Aug. 25; ed:2/l - For a few days past every lover of his coun- 
try and liberty has directed his attention toward Cassius Clay and Lex- 
ington, Ky., and the scenes which have occurred there will agitate the 
public mind to action more than any other event in this country for a 
good many years. 

Clay has for many years now been heralded throughout the land as the 
staunch opponent of slavery, and his fame and efforts have spread through 
his paper, the TRUE AMERICAN, dedicated to the principle of "equal rights 
for all." Born in a slave state, he has freed his own serfs and carried 
the fight to the enemy, ever anxious to free Kentucky of the canker curse 
of slavery. 

Now the "high-minded" slaveocracy have banded against him, intent to 
stop his cries for freedom and to take from him the freedom of speech 
and the press. -, 

"They may suppress the 'TRUE AMERICAN' - they may cause its noble 
Editor to go down to an early grave; but the 'respectable mob' cannot 
check the onward progress of the spirit of liberty. We hope and trust 
that Cassius M. Clay will live to stand up for long years the able and 
fearless champion of the natural and inalienable rights of mankind - live, 
to see his native state free from the disgrace and bondage of s'avery - 
live, to join in the glad hosannas of the people of our whole country 
of every color shouting, 'Freedom's Come, We Are Free, We Are Free!'... 
If he falls, the name of Cassius M. Clay will be the watch word, the rally- 
ing cry of the friends of Freedom, throughout the world - and like the 
Israelite of old, he will slay more men in his death, than in his life. 

"The great question of liberty and slavery must be met. It cannot be 
avoided 

"Our country must be free - and truth will make it free." (18) 

1892 - H Aug. 25; ed:3/l - At Lexington, Ky., it is said Cassius Clay's 
TRUE AMERICAN office had been moved against because the whites there 
feared an arising among the blacks, who have suddenly slowed up their 
labors and in many cases ceased them altogether. They have also taken 
to singing refrains about Clay's noble attempt to free them from their 
shackles. The slave-holders therefore muzzled the TRUE AMERICAN, just 
as though the slaves cannot read, hear, see, and talk! 

"The mob meetings and mob proceedings in suppressing the publication 
of the TRUE AMERICAN, will prove to be more incendiary than all the 
issues of that paper." (11) 

1893 - H Aug. 26; ed:3/2 - In an address at Lexington on Aug. 22 Hon. 
T. F. Marshall, speaking against Cassius Clay and his TRUE AMERICAN, 
stated that he was not opposed to freedom of the press, but that he did 
object to the downright abolition sentiment of Clay and the resultant 
danger to the domestic repose of the slave State of Kentucky. He asserted 
that Clay was imbibed with the abolition spirit of the New York TRIBUNE 
and that he was dangerous because he advocated the exclusion of Texas, 

the crowding of the slave population into several southern states 



337

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1894 - 1896 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

to create a war of extermination which might end in the extinction of 
whites or blacks, and the exclusion of the three-fifths slave population 
representation, thereby further weakening the south in Congress. Mar- 
shall favored non-toleration of abolitionist newspapers in the state and 
effected a resolution to remove the TRUE AMERICAN from Kentucky and 
prevent its return, or the establishment of any other paper like it. 

"The address has much that is just, and must that is unjust in its 
language 

"The accusation of the TRIBUNE as being a leading Abolition journal, 
is certainly unjust." 

Concerning Marshall's declaration that in the face of danger the com- 
munity had a right to mob against Clay we say: "And the judgment of the 
world, the decisions of justice, we think, will accord the palm not to 
the people who receive and sanction the adoption of force, mob-like for 
the suppression of the press." (17) 

1894 - H Aug. 28; ed:2/3 - In 1840, Thomas F. Marshall wrote, in a let- 
ter on slavery: "I have said that I considered negro slavery as a po- 
litical misfortune. The phrase is too mild. It is a cancer - a slow, 
consuming cancer - a withering pestilence - An Unmitigated Curse." 

Several days ago, speaking at the mob meeting gathered to remove Cas- 
sius Clay and his TRUE AMERICAN anti-slavery paper from Kentucky, Mar- 
shall said: "When we contemplate the mild form of negro slavery in this 
district; the happy, and peaceful, and contented relations of the master 
and the slave, where such a thing as cruelty was scarcely known, where 
the master was without fear or distrust, and the well fed, well-clothed, 
intelligent slave bent to his lot of labor, the lot, by the way, of all 
mankind, without repining, regarding his master rather in the light of 
parent, and himself as a necessery and no mean portion of the family, 
we could pour curses on the fiends who would break up the intimate, and 
not the least endearing, relation of domestic life." 

"These extracts need no comment; they speak for themselves. In 1840 
Marshall was a Whig - in 1845, a Texas Locofoco." (8) 

1895 - H Aug. 29; ed:2/l - The "respectable" mobbers at Lexington, headed 
by Tom Marshall, have set a ball in motion they find hard to stop. Licensed 
by iheir example in mobbing Clay's TRUE AMERICAN office, a few of the 
"baser" spirits of the city have donned black masks and cavorted these 
nights, outraging and tarring and feathering Negroes, until even the Mar- 
shall mobocrats have been forced to interfere in the blacks' behalf. 

"Cool, is it not?... We will venture that had the black masks been 
lifted, some at least of the 'respectable and discreet men' and the 
'choice spirits' would have resembled each other as closely as two peas." 

(6) 

1896 - H Sept. 5; ed:2/l,2 - Let those who doubt that the sacrifices of 
C. M. Clay at Lexington would enkindle the flame of abolitionism anew, 
trace history back a few years and learn how that cause, like many others, 



338

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1897 - 1898 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

has been fed by the fuel of unlawful violence and martyrdom. As early 
as 1830, a heavy fine and imprisonment failed to still the voice of the 
freedom-loving William Lloyd Garrison. In 1831, the first Abolition 
society of Boston was often threatened with mob violence, and indeed at 
one of their sessions Garrison escaped a tarring and feathering by the 
merest hairbreadth when an angry crowd tore down the meeting hall of the 
society. 

Such scenes aroused many lovers of liberty, and these enrolled their 
names with the persecuted Abolitionists, who might have died unknown 
had they been treated with silence. However, they felt, when persecuted, 
that their's was a holy cause, and all the fanaticism in their hearts was 
naturally called in to their aid. 

There were other Abolitionists: Birney, Lovejoy, Dresser, Tappan, 
Williams, and others, of whom many met their death in the cause, but "^~ 

persecution did not kill their spirit; adversity gave it new life. 

"While the fanaticism of some of the leading Abolitionists, has led 
to a division which has weakened them, we see that nothing has been lost 

to the Spirit of Liberty Let no unholy hand be stretched forth to 

stay the ark of freedom as it moves forward, for be assured it will be 
striken by divine vengeance. 

"By every motive of patriotism and religion, by every holy aspira- 
tion of the heart for man's moral and political regeneration throughout 
the Earth, let no violent hand be laid on one who seeks the true glory 
of his country by removing constitutionalty (sic), the foulest blot that 
could darken the escutcheon of an enlightened and Christian nation." (28) 

1897 - H Sept. 13; ed:2/l - The Nashville REPUBLICAN BANNER, in an edi- 
torial, grieves over the fact that Tennessee has more adult persons un- 
able to read and write than any other state in the union with the ex- 
ception of Virginia and North Carolina. 

"We should think it time that the press of the slave States began to 
arouse themselves to the great subject of general education. But we can 
say to them, in all honesty and sincerity, that the people of the slave 
States never can be educated in Common Schools while the 'unmitigated 
curse' of slavery is allowed to remain among them. General, wide-spread 
intelligence never can exist in a slave country, for slavery can only 
exist in the midst of ignorance. Mr. Banner, your own Tennessee will 
stand high on the list of ignorance, until you wipe out slavery and es- 
tablish Common Schools in all your towns." (8) 

1898 - H Sept. 19; ed:2/1,2 - Under the head "Pro and Con" we lately 
published certain extracts from the writing of Thomas F. Marshall on the 
subject of slavery. In 1840 he denounced slavery as a slow consuming 
cancer and an unmitigated curse. In 1845 he talks about the mild form 
of negro slavery, the happy and peaceful relations of the master and 
slave. 

To these select extracts we make no comments, simply stating that in '•• 
1840, Marshall was a Whig - in 1845, a Texas Locofoco. 



339

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1899 - 1900 

SLAVERY (Cont'd) 

We have no disposition to meddle with the practical workings of the 
peculiar institutions of the South, but in abstract we regard Negro 
slavery as a great national evil. The several states of this confed- 
eracy, are members, respectively, of one and the same body politic. 
If one of these members become diseased, it may be she has the right to 
employ her own doctors and to live or die as she pleases. But should 
it chance to happen, that this disease affects the rights and endangers 
the life of the other members of the body, they have the right to doctor 
the sick member. "Now if Negro Slavery, be that mild, happy, peaceful, 
endearing relation of domestic life, which Mr. Marshall, in 1845, repre- 
sented it to be, then the rights, the character, and the liberties of the 
people of the Free States and of the Nation are not affected seriously 
thereby, and the Slave States should have the right to doctor themselves. 
But on the contrary, if as Mr. Marshall said in 1840, negro slavery 'is 
a cancer - a slow consuming cancer - a withering pestilence - an unmiti- 
gated curse' - then the rights and safety of the people cf the Free 
States and the reputation and well being of the Nation, justify and de- 
mand the removal of this 'dark plague-spot,' from the 'virgin bosom' 
of the Republic." (23) 

H Sept. 23; ed:3/l • See Libel &amp; Slander 

1899 - H Oct. 14; ed:2/l - A Kentucky jury has returned a verdict of not 
guilty in the case of the 60 Lexington, Ky., citizens who destroyed 
Cassius M. Clay's TRUE AMERICAN office on Aug. 18. The 60 had been 
charged with inciting a riot. 

"The verdict of the Kentucky Jury, will not, probably, create any 
surprise throughout the country. But if it does not create indignation 
and scorn in the minds of all rational men, then we are mistaken. 

"We have supposed, that in this country, above all others, that the 
lives and liberty and prosperity of men, were held sacred, and we were 
protected by the laws. But it seems we have been mistaken.... 

"This verdict has gone abroad to the world; and it will hold Ken- 
tucky up to the scorn and contempt of the world: and Kentucky Justice 
will be 'a hissing and a bye word' among the nations of the earth." (13) 

H Oct. 9; ed:2/l,2 - See Tariff 

H Oct. 22; ed:2/l - See Community Growth 

1900 - H Nov. 3:3/1 - Slavers Captured. - It is stated that from January 
to May, 1845, there were captured and taken into Sierra Leone and con- 
demned nineteen vessels engaged in the slave-trade, all under the Span- 
ish and Brazilian flags. One had 421 • another 70, and a third 312 

Slaves on board. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion - Texas; Mobs &amp; Riots; Negroes; Political Parties; Churches &amp; Sects; Sectionalism 



340

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1901 - 1905 

PLACEHOLDER

SOAP 

1901 - H Aug. 26:2/3,4 • Soap - A Hint in Housewifery. - In summer and 
autumn your soap grease is apt to accumulate beyond your immediate wants; 
if put away it is apt to be devoured by maggots, and if made into soap, you 
may not have pine or other vessels enough to hold it. Having suffered loss 
from being placed in such circumstances, we were much gratified with a 
piece of intelligence accidentally received, which relieved us from this 
disagreeable dilemma. By boiling your soap with salt, about a quart of the 
latter to three gallons of the former you can separate ley and water enough 
to make the soap hard. After boiling half an hour, turn it out in a tub to 
cool. Cut the cakes which swim on the top into pieces, and, having scraped 
off the froth and other impurities, melt again, without the ley and water 
underneath of course, and pour it into a box to cool. You may then cut it 
up into proper dimensions for drying. - By adding a proportion of rosin well 
pulverized at the last boiling, you will have yellow soap like that made for 
sale, (verbatim) (3) 

SOCIAL EVENTS 

1902 - H May 29; adv:3/2 - (Cleveland German City Guard's First Annual 
Ball For The Benefit Of The Company) - (The German Guards) will give a 
Ball at the Cuyahoga House on Friday, June 6, 1845, to commence at 4 
o'clock P.M. Tickets will be sent to the heads of families; others are 
respectfully invited to attend without further notice. Music by the 
German Band, B. B. Schubert, Leader. Tickets, $1.50. Managers, Lt. 
Fretter, Serg't. Widenroft, Private Wigman, Detmer, Private Shrink, 
Private Serwick, and Dr. Wm. Meyer. (verbatim) (1) 

1903 - H Oct. 24; adv:2/4 - Benefit Ball Of The German Cleveland City 
Guards. 

The above will give a Ball at the Cuyahoga House, kept by C. Silberg, 
on Monday evening, Nov. 10, at 6 o'clock. Tickets $1.50 each. (2) 

1904 - H Dec. 18; adv:2/4 - Firemen's Ball. Phoenix Engine Company No. 
4. Respectfully announce to the Ladies and Gentlemen of the city and 
vicinity, that they will give a Ball at the Merchant's Hotel, On Monday 
Evening, Dec. 29, 1845, Tickets, $3 - to be had at the hotel. (2) 

SPIRITUALISM &amp; OCCULTISM 

1905 - H July 26; ed:2/2 • The parties who are engaged in seeking Capt. 
Kidd's buried treasure, supposedly buried in the Hudson river, place 
their confidence of success in mesmerism and clairvoyance. They have 
already expended $cO,000 in digging for the famed fortune. 

"We opine clairvoyance will be about as much at fault in this case as 
it was in designating the wreck of the ERIE," In the latter case, sup- 
posed clairvoyants humbugged a neat sum even though they failed to find , ,. 
the ERIE. (3) 



341

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1906 - 1911 

SPIRITFALISM &amp; OCCULTISM (Cont'd) 

1906 - H Sept. 30; adv:2/5 - Clairvoyance! Mr. Thomas Fagan of New 
York has located in this city, at the Jefferson House, (residence, 24 
Rockwell-st. ) with Mrs. Fagan of whose eminent clairvoyance so much has 
been said. Mrs. Fagan can readily and surely tell, when in a state of 
somnambulism, what is the disease of any afflicted person, and what cure 
should be sought. The mere wonders claimed for her, that she is able to 
apprehend clearly distant occurances, the position of things lost or hid- 
den, and even the thoughts of strangers, is of secondary importance. 
Fagan intends to apply Mrs. Fagan 's gift only to the cure of human ills. 

Magnetizing treatments, sure not to fail, are given for St. Vitus' 
Dance, nervous headache, etc. (2) 

STATIONERS. See Bookstores &amp; Stationers 

STEEL. See Iron &amp; Steel 

STONE INDUSTRY. See Marble &amp; Stone 

STOVES &amp; FURNACES 

1907 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/4 - Notice - The undersigned have formed a co» 
partnership in business under the name and style of Woolson &amp; Pomeroy. 
They will continue the manufacture and sale of Stoves of all descrip- 
tions at the old stand of C. J. Woolson &amp; Co., on Superior st., next 
door t) 0. Cutter's Auction Room. 

C. J. Woolson. Geo. Q. Pomeroy. (1) 

1908 - H Feb. 19:3/3 - Notice. - The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of 
the "Cuyahoga Steam Furnace Company" for the election of officers and 
transaction of such other business as may be brought before them, will 
be at the office on Tuesday, the 25th inst., at 2 o'clock P.M. E. T. 
Sterling, Agent, Ohio City. (verbatim) (1) 

H May 5; ed:3/l - See Forgeries 

1909 - H July 1; adv: 3/2 - Cook Stoves. I have the agency for Three 
different styles of the most approved Cook Stoves, a superior article 
at greatly reduced prices. 

Country Merchants and others who wish to purchase by the quantity 
are respectfully invited to call. The style, quality and prices cannot 
fail to give satisfaction. Henry Petrie, Cheapside Buildings, Superior- 
St. (1) 

1910 - H July 1; adv:4/5 - Cooking Furnaces - A large lot for sale cheap, 

at wholesale or retail by C. J. Woolson. (1) 

1911 - H Sept. 23; adv:3/3 - New Cooking Stove, and Stoves of all Kinds! 
The subscribers would call the public's attention to their New Hot-Air 
Cooking Stove, superior to any on the market. Also different models of 



342

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1912 ■ 1917 

STOVES &amp; FURNACES (Cont'd) 

cooking stoves, parlor and plate stoves, coal grates, coal stoves, etc. 

All manufactured in the best of manner, of the best materials, and will 

be sold wholesale or retail. Woolson, Klemm &amp; Co. (2) 

STREETS 

1912 - H Jan. 6:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 3, it was 
resolved to adopt methods of renting portions on Bath st. which will 
benefit the city. (1) 

1913 - H Jan. 27:2/4 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 24, the Bath 
St. commissioner was authorized to procure a map of the Bath st. property 
for record, showing divisions and lots and streets, and cause posts to be 
set at corners of reserved lots. (1) 

1914 - H June 14:2/5 - Common council met on June 12 and transacted the 
following business: 

Resolutions adopted - To appoint a committee to assess damages in- 
curred by laying of Convenience lane; 

To appoint a committee to assess damages incurred by laying of Sheriff 
St. (6) 

1915 - H Feb. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 7, in refer- 
ence to the leasing of Bath st., it was resolved that no lease shall be 
drawn so as to render the city liable to pay damages in case of failure 
of title or disturbance of possession, all rents to cease in case of any 
tenant being turned out lawfully. 

Ttje harbor master was directed to report to the council at the next 
meeting what amount of money has been paid for the use of Bath st. for 
the current year, and what amount is now due and from whom. 

It was resolved that a committee of three be appointed to examine 
matters in controversy with J. F. Warner and Co. for the occupancy of 
Bath st. ground the past year, and report at the next meeting. (3) 

1916 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 22, the city 
clerk was authorized to draw an order in favor of J. F. Warner for 

$61.77, for rent on Bath st. (1) 

1917 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - City council met, Feb. 21, and transacted the 
following business: 

Resolutions adopted - That in all proposals for leasing lots upon 
Bath St., persons occupying lots upon said premises shall be preferred 
when the te ms proposed by different persons for the same lot shall be 
equal; 

That when any person shall propose for two or more lots to be used 
in connection, such proposition shall be considered entire compared 
with the aggregate sum offered for the same lots separately; 

That all leases for lots upon Bath st. shall contain a provision pro- 
hibiting the sale of spiritous liquors on the premises so leased under 
the penalty of forfeiture. (2) 



343

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1918 - 1923 

STREETS (Cont'd) 

1918 • H Mar. 3:3/3 - At the city council meeting last night, the clerk 
was instructed to draw an order on the treasurer in favor of John Wills 

for $200 in payment of services as street supervisor. (1) 

1919 - H Mar. 12:2/2 - In a letter to the editor an anonymous person says: 
On the evening of Feb. 21, when the question of appropriating Bath st. to 
private purposes was to be decided upon by the council, the heirs of Lloyd 
presented a memorial or protest against the contemplated action of the City 
on the subject of leases. It states that in 1836-7, an attempt was made to 
induce the city to investigate the claim with a view to adjustment by com- 
promise; that the street never having been legally laid out, the city should 
proceed to establish a street of such form and dimensions as should fully 
accommodate the public, and have it duly surveyed, located, and recorded, the 
remaining portions to be equitably divided between the city and the claim- 
ants, and thus a fee simple interest secured to the corporation. To take 
away the plea of want of notice, the case is again submitted for the con- 
sideration of the council. (12) 

1920 - H Apr. 10:2/4 - To Amend an ordinance for the better regulations 
on Streets. 

Be it ordained, that so much of the Ordinance for the better regula- 
tion of Streets, passed May 8th, 1844, be, and is hereby so amended, as 
to require all wagons and other Vehicles, loaded with wood for sale, to 
stand on Champlain-st. west of Seneca-st., and on Division st. Passed 
April 8th, 1845. Sam'l Starkweather, Mayor. M. Kelly, City Clerk, 
(verbatim) (1) 

1921 - H Apr. 10:2/4 - An Ordinance to establish a Street to be a con- 
tinuation of Sheriff-st., and to be called Sheriff-street. 

Section 1. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Cleve- 
land, That a Street forty feet in width in continuation of Sheriff-st., 
extending from Prospect st. to High-st., in the present course of Sher- 
iff-st., be and the same is hereby laid out and established, a public 
highway in said city, which street shall be called and known as Sheriff-st. 
Pissed April 8, 1845. Sam'l Starkweather, Mayor. M. Kelly, City Clerk. 
N. B. - All persons claiming daTia^es by reason of laying the above street, 
are hereby notified to file their claims with the City Clerk in 30 days 
from this date, in such cases made and provided by the 8th section of the 
City Charter. M. Kelly, Clerk. (verbatim) (2) 

1922 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, it was re- 
solved that an alley to be called Cheshire be established. (1) 

1923 - H May 28; adv:2/5 - Notice is hereby given that a petition will 
be presented to the Common Council of the city of Cleveland at its first 
meeting after the 10th of July, 1845, praying the said Council to lay 
out and establish a lane, as a public convenience in the following 



344

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. I TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1924 - 1930 

STREETS (Cont'd) 

location: - beginning on the easterly side of Levi Johnson's homestead 

lot, at a point in the northerly line of Lake st. eight rods distant 

from the intersection of Lake and Water-sts., running thence northerly 

in a line parallel with Water-st. to Wall-st. The easterly line of said 

alley being parallel with and 12 feet distant from the westerly line. 

(verbatim) (1) 

1924 - H June 9:3/2 - Mr. Harris: Can you, or can the Mayor, or Mar- 
shal, of our city inform the public, how much of the side walks on Supe- 
rior street the Merchants are entitled to? The "rags" hung out by many 
of them, to flit in the face, and knock off the hats of pedestrians, are 
almost intolerable nuisances. And is there no remedy for this annoyance? 
I have supposed the public entitled to enough of the side walk so that 
they could pass along without stooping to "cotton cloth," on which is 
painted in larpe letters, "New Goods," "Just Received," &amp;c. 

If the Merchants do not raise their "rags," hands will raze them, and 
thus abate a very great annoyance to the People. (verbatim) (2) 

1925 - H Aug. 23:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Cleveland" says: I 
think we have a strange police (if any there be) to allow old buildings 
being moved to block public streets and force traffic on the sidewalks. 
Some serious accidents will happen I fear from their standing in the 
street. Why not, if they must move their houses, move them to their 
destination immediately? (2) 

1926 - H Sept. 8:3/2 - Mr. Editor: - Can you inform us how much of the 
street a man is entitled to who is building? Superior and Bank streets 
look as if a man is entitled to the use of almost the whole street - and 
they have been almost blockaded for some months. (verbatim) (1) 

Improvements 



1927 - H Jan. 27:2/4 - At the city council meeting on Jan. 24, it was re- 
solved that the sidewalks of Water st. and gullies from St. Clair st. to 

the lake be repaired at an expense not to exceed $30. (1) 

1928 - H Feb. 28:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 21. the street 
superintendent was instructed to extend the grade of Cheshire st. from 
Prospect St. to Garden st. (1) 

1929 - H Mar. 10:2/3 - At the city council meeting Mar. 7, the street 
supervisor was instructed to establish the grade of Bank st. between 
Superior and St. Clair sts. (1) 

1930 - H Apr. 2:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Mar. 31, a resolu- ■■.' 
tion was adopted providing for the appropriation of $25 for grading 
Cheshire st. (1) 



345

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1931 - 1937 

STREETS • Improvements (Cont'd) 

1931 - H Apr. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 8, $30 was 

appropriated for repairing Chestnut st. 

The committee on streets reported in favor of expending $10 further- 
ance of the petition of Daniel Parish towards repairing the gutter of 
Ontario st. Accepted. 

The committee on streets reported in favor of Atwater's agent for 
mdking of drains &amp;c. Accepted with a resolution appropriating $100 
towards said improvement. Carried. (3) 

1932 - H July 3:3/3 - At the city council meeting on June 30, a petition 
from the citizens was read, praying for the improvement of Huron st. (1) 

1933 • H Sept. 3:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Q." says: Those who 
have not signed the petition for the grade of the north end of Ontario 
St. should do so at once, especially property holders living north on 
Sjperior st. It is the only practicable means of getting rid of sur- 
face water for the most part of the North end of the City, and the street 
would be very useful to a great number." (2) 

1934 - H Sept. 30:2/3,4 - The city council last night adopted a resolu- 
tion to remove obstructions on Sheriff st. (1) 

1935 - H Oct. 18:3/1 - Captain Stockton has extended a substantial stone 
walk out to the Lighthouse, a distance of 1,300 feet. The eastern pier 
is now finished to the lighthouse and is very solidly built. 

T e grading wnd improvement of Bath st., now in progress, will be of 
value to the city. Should the street be connected with the foot of 
Water st., it will constitute the best thoroughfare we have to the boat 
landing. The drive will not only be a pleasant one, but the Bath st. 
iraprovem°nt .'ill g-tatly enhance the value of some 30 acres of city prop- 
erty, to which the lake is daily making additions. (3) 

See alsQ Fish &amp; Game; Roads &amp; Highways 

SUICIDES 

1936 - H June 25:3/1 - One of a gang of convicts being taken to the 
pt-nitentiary by Sheriff Beebe attempted to take his own life on the 
route and came very near accomplishing his object. His name is John 
Quinn, convicted of burglary and sentenced for five years. 

At Jones' tavern, Centreburgh, where the party had stopped for the 
night, Quinn, during the night, cut his arm so severely that he was 
nearly dead from loss of blood when discovered. However, a physician 
was called, the wound dressed, and Quinn so far recovered that he was 
conveyed to prison. (2) 

1937 - H Ji-ly 14:3/! - We understand that Mr. Lyon of Strongsville, in 
this county, committed suicide this morning by cutting his throat. He 

was some 45 vears of age. (verbatim) (1) 



346

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1938 - 1940 

SUICIDES (Cont'd) 

1938 - H July 23:3/2 - Mrs. John Flint of Brighton, Cuyahoga county, 
committed suicide yesterday by cutting her throat in a fit of despon- 
dency. She had made previous attempts at death. The woman was 50 

years old. (3) 

1939 - H Sept. 20:3/1 - Mr. Peter Barnard landed here yesterday from Wis- 
consin and put up at Mr. Cook's Temperance House. He had been drinking 
on the boat, and while laboring under the horrible effects of delirium 
tremens last night, he attempted his own life by hanging himself to a bed 
post with a pocket handkerchief. His struggles aroused a son of Mr. Cook, 
who cut him down before the vital spark was extinct. Mr. B. belongs in 
Plattsburgh, N. Y. (verbatim) (2) 

SUPERSTITION -^ ; 

1940 - H July 12; ed:3/3 - The singular superstition that the applica- 
tion of a dead man's hand to any afflicted parts of the human body will 
cure disease, was noticed particularly at a late execution in Warwick, 
England. In an account of the last hours of a man who was hung for kill- 
ing a fellow being, it is stated that an unusual number of females were 
present, and that scarcely had the soul of the deceased taken its flight 
from the earthly tabernacle, when the scaffold was crowded by numbers of 
women who were afflicted with wens, tumors, whiteswellings, etc., upon 
all of which afflictions the cold clammy hand of the deceased was passed 
to and fro. This was much to the benefit of the executioner, who re- 
ceived from each person a fee of application! 

"'Faith,' it has long been said 'will remove mountains,' and these 
poor women must have possessed an abundance of the strengthening prin- 
ciple." (2) 

SURGERY. See Medicine &amp; Surgery 



347

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1941 - 1944 

PLACEHOLDER

TARIFF 

1941 - H July 8; ed:3/l - Walker, secretary of the treasury, has written 
a letter to the MISSISSIPPIAN, which is copied into the WASHINGTON 
UNION, in which he mentions that the labors of his office are very arduous, 
and t! at at present his chief occupation is with the details of the tariff 
which must be reduced to the revenue standard. 

"An effort will no doubt be made at the next session of Congress to 
reduce the Tariff but we incline to the opinion that it will be easier to 
talk about it than to effect it." (5) 

1942 - H July 22:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Woman" says: The 
policy of protecting American interests by imposing higher tariffs than 
needed for the bare support of the government, I know is a vexing question, 
and one in which women are supposed to have little interest. Yet, there 
are many of us who have no husbands or fathers, and must therefore labor 
for ourselves. To this class the question is of intense importance. 

"If unchecked foreign competition is allowed, the prices of their 
labor will of necessity become so reduced that instead of comfort we may 
reasonably look for squalid poverty, and even beggary.... 

"I know it is urged that the starving poor in other lands are fed by 
the sacrifice of our manufacturing interests. Let me ask how long they 
would be benefited?... I admit a present benefit to a part, but I can- 
not conceive that it would effect a general good, even to Great Britain 
herself, while our own poor would be degraded and suffering." (12) 

1943 - H Sept. 2; ed:3/2 • The Loco papers continue their war on the 
tariff. Much sympathy is expressed for the farmers because they can send 
no bread stuffs to England, not because England will not buy, but because 
our high tariff will not permit the importation of goods here in payment 
for our agricultural produce. 

See how a few figures exhibit the fallacy of the above assertion; Our 
exports to England for the year ending June 30, 1844. were valued at 
$3,156,891. Imports from that country during the same period were 
$41,476,081. 

"Coinpare the willingness of England to take the products of American 
agriculture, save cotton, tobacco and rice, with our unwillingness to pur- 
chase British manufactures!" (3) 

1944 - H Sept. 3; ed:3/2 - A Washington correspondent of the EVENING POST 
states that the secretary of the treasury is bending all efforts to gather 
statistics which will prove the fallacy cf the present tariff and bring 
about the "excellent democratic regulation" known as sub-treasury. The 
correspondent refers to the tariff as "this execrable relic of Whiggery." 

"This will doubtless be highly gratifying intelligence to the manufac- 
turing population of democratic Pennsylvania, and the wool growers of New 
York and the East. The whole country is confessedly prosperous beyond 
precedent, under the existing Tariff. Polk was elected under an implied 
and almost explicit promise in certain sections to let it alone; and now 
we are told it is doomed!" (4) 



348

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1945 - 1947 

TARIFF (Cont'd) 

1945 - H Sept. 5; ed:2/2 - A Washington correspondent of the New York 
HERALD reports a conversation with a southern farmer in which the latter 
praises manufacturing to the skies and declares, in one place: "And I 
tell you, if you fellers at Washington go for to tear down the Tariff, 
we'll be down on you like a thousand of brick, as the Yankees say." 

This is a practical aspect of the pro-tariff sentiment. 

"Wherever manufactures have been established at the South, by enter- 
prising men, the same results have followed - the farmers find they 
'oilers have money, ' and this practical argument in favor of the Tariff 
is worth a thousand diquisitions which very few can understand." (12) 

H Sept. 18; ed:3/l - See Politics &amp; Government - United States 

H Oct. 8; ed;3/2 - See Politics &amp; Government - United States 

1946 - H Oct. 9; ed:2/l,2 - The Nashville UNION moans over the present 
protective tariff and states there is no enhancement of labor or wages 
here, as promised by the advocates of protection. 

"We do not believe this statement correct, and facts, as they have 
been gathered throughout the free North, will not support the anti -tariff 
'UNION' in the position it has assumed. We take it for granted that every 
additional manufacturing establishment put in operation in our country, 
gives additional employment to an increased number of men and women.... 

"There can be nothing more true, than that those laws which put addi- 
tional labor in motion, cause a direct creation of wealth. Labor, under 
the beneficial effects of the 'present tariff, ' is everywhere in the free 
States (where it is paid) accumulating capital." 

Again, the UNION laments over the long working hours of northern labor, 
forgetting that in the South labor is not paid at all, and made to serve 
year after year with no reward. 

"Who are they that demand the repeal of the present tariff? Who are 
they that cry out so loudly for the destruction of the protective system. 

They are the slave owners of the South; they are men who, in the 
language of a Southern writer, hold that Labor is a curse, and notwith- 
standing all the petty sentimentality of the Everetts, the Childs, and 
the Longfeliows, is everywhere considered so!... They are men who live 
in luxury and wealth, upon the proceeds of their unpaid slave labor. 

"But we shall never cease to advocate the protective system, and uphold 
the domestic industry of our country, in preference to the visionary free 
trade system of the slaveholders of the South and the unprincipled dema- 
gogues of the North." (23) 

1947 - H Oct. 11; ed:2/l,2 - The advocates of free trade and slave labor 
in the south, especially that Polk journal, the Nashville UNION, have for 
a long time been in the habit of speaking in a contemptuous and truthless 
manner of the free laborers of the north, and they have expressed great 
sympathy for the "poor creatures" who labor in the cotton and woolen mills 
of New England. Many of them loudly maintain that the southern slave is 



349

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1948 - 1949 

TARIFF (Cont'd) 

better off all around than the laborer in a northern manufactory. The 
Vicksburg SENTINEL goes so far as to say the Negroes of the south could 
not be driven to do what these "poor creatures" (the laborers in the facto- 
ries) are compelled to submit to, to procure subsistence. 

"Go to the ten thousand happy homes, which are the fruits of the wages 
of labor, and ask the inmates what they think of the comparison of the 

SENTINEL, between them, and the slaves We can say to the labor 

haters of the South, that all their attacks upon the 'factory girls' and 
factory laborers, will only recoil upon their own heads, and tend to wake 
up ihe North to the defence of her interests; for the people of the North 
are beginning 'to know what they do, ' and what they have to deal with. 

"We can tell the Slaveocracy of the South, that all their free-trade 
theories, and hatred of free labor, and envy of the prosperity of the 
North, will not aid them in perpetuating their Utopian schemes, or in 
sustaining their 'peculiar institutions.' The only truly happy man is 
the laboring man. Freedom and industry are as necessary to human happi- 
ness as agitation is to the purity of water or air. 

"We cannot believe that the North will yield up 'American Industry,' 
and home protection, in order to profit the slave-labor of the chivalrous 
South," (27) 

H Oct. 31; ed;3/l - See Political Parties 

1948 - H Nov. 17; ed:2/l - "It is stated that the present price of plate 
glass is ten per cent more than it was before the removal of the high duty." 

We cut the above from a list of items by the last British steamer at 
Boston. It is true as to all fabrics in all countries where home industry 
is protected. We assert unhesitatingly that no article originally of foreign 
production has long been protected by tariffs the price of which has not 
been materially reduced. 

Domestic competition in all articles that we can raise or manufacture 
soon brings down the price, not only of the foreign, but of the home 
product. Profits may for a little time be high but cannot long remain so. 
Who pays as much now for paper, nails, boots, shoes, hats, cotton cloths, 
and calicoes, as before duties almost prohibitory were imposed? 

"The text furnishes a subject upon which a long sermon might be 
preached, but we have neither time nor inclination to do it." (5) 

1949 - H Dec. 12; ed:3/1 ■ Presideni Polk and Secretary Walker are for 
cutting down the tariff, the result of which would be to shut down half 
of our manufactories and interfere with the prosperity of our people, by 
transferring our workshop to Europe. 

"The king of Holland has decreed that until June 1, 1846, the duty on 
a barrel of potatoes should be eight dollars, which is two dollars more 
than the value at this time in the Cleveland market. 

"Hurrah for free trade, Col. Polk, Mr. Walker, and 'We, William II, 
King, &amp;c.'" (3) 



350

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1950 - 1954 

TARIFF (Cont'd) 

1950 - H Dec. 12; eci:3/l - The President in his message says that the 
fact that the tariff act of 1842 was passed by a majority of only one 
vote in the Senate and two in the House affords strong and conclusive 
evidence that it was not intended to be permanent. Polk points out the 
expediency and necessity of its thorough revision. 

"We expect bar-room politicians will lie if it suits their purposes; 
bat we feel mortified and ashamed when a high functionary of our American 
Government, descends from his elevation to utter a sentiment which he 
must know is calculated to deceive." (4) 

See also Commerce 

TAXATION 

1951 - H Feb. 7:2/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, "Huon" says: "I am 
somewhat disappointed that ere this some member from the 'Reserve' in our 
Legislature has not made a strenuous effort to have our laws relative to 
taxes amended so as to bring into the 'taxables' more property." 

It seems to me that justice and right require that sheep and hogs be 
subject to taxation in our State. 

I am well aware that this matter of taxation is a very difficult one, 
and not easily made right; but it does seem that it might be made more 
equal than it now is in Ohio. Let household furniture, gold and silver 
plate, also luxuries like gold watches, diamonds, and jewels be taxed. 

Our laws taxing money at interest need amendment very much. As they 
now exist they are a mere nullity. 

The mercantile capital in Cleveland is taxed too high. One firm in 
Cleveland paid a tax on their mercantile capital in 1844 of $282 and many 
of them $50 to $100. Bring more taxables on the list and reduce the 
taxes. (24) 

1952 - H Feb. 10:3/3 - At the city council meeting on Feb. 7, our senator 
and representative were requested to procure the amendment of so much of 
the city charter as relates to the collection of discriminating taxes, and 
that section nine of said charter be so amended that the council have the 
power of appointing a collector to collect such taxes as may be assessed 

for discriminating purposes. (1) 

1953 - H May 5; adv:2/4 - Assessors Notice. - The Cleveland Township 
Assessor, may be found at his shop in the rear of the City Buildings, 
from 7, a.m. to 12 m. each day. Lambert White, Assessor. (verbatim) (1) 



1954 - H May 6:2/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, "Two Cents and Three 
Mills" says: I wish through your paper to ask of Lambert White, Esq., the 
"Cleveland Township Assessor," whether he expects all the township tax- 
payers to call at his "shop" with their taxable liabilities? It has al- 
ways been supposed that the Assessor is paid for attending to his duties, 
and that a part of them is to call himself upon the flock when it is to 
be fleeced, and not to have the flock call upon him. 







351

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1955 ■ 1959 

TAXATION (Cont'd) 

The great gratification of complying with "Alfred Kelley's chicken- 
tax law," will not be much enhanced by requiring us to pry into all the 
shanties "in the rear of the City Buildings," to hunt up the "shop" 
where the shears are kept. (verbatim) (2) 

1955 - H May 8:2/3 • Mr. Harris: • Will you please to inform the "Two 
Cents and Three Mills" man, that if he is in the habit of passing up or 
down Superior street, that by stepping a few steps out of his way, he 
can find our Shanty; and if he will inform us when he will call, we will 
put our Shanty in order for his reception. Or if he will inform us 
where his Palace is, we will put on our narrow brimmed hat and high 
heeled boots and call on him. 

If he will take pains to look at the Law, he will find it incumbent 
on him to deliver his statement to the Assessor. Shears. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1956 - H July 3:3/3 - The common council on June 30, adopted a resolution 
appointing Richard Winslow as one of a committee of three to replace 
Bailey as an assessing board on Sheriff st. (1) 

1957 • H Sept. 16; ed;2/l • A most singular feature in the assessments 
under the new Hamilton county tax law is the diminished amount returned 
for taxation, independent of the capital in trade and money at interest - 
10,118 acres less of land reported for taxation this year than last. 

The OHIO STATE JOURNAL complains, and very justly so, of this attempt of 
Hamilton county to avoid its equitable proportion of taxation. 

"Is it just then that Hamilton, the wealthiest and most favored county 
of the State, should shuffle a portion of the public burdens for which 
she is justly liable, upon counties that already contribute their full 
proportion. Such, assuredly should not be the case, and if there is any 
remedy we hope it will be applied." (7) 

1958 - H Sept. 30; ed:2/l - The Chillicothe ADVERTISER gives the following 
as an exftmple of the injustice of the present state taxation laws: An 
investor in bank stocks, exempt from taxation, has only to pay taxes on 

his profits, which run often as high as 25 percent, while an investor in 
a business of any kind is taxed on both, capital and profits, the latter 
in most cases not exceeding ten per cent of the investment. 

"Perhaps, Mr. ADVERTISER, you have misrepresented a little in the above 
statement, in order to bring the State tax law into disrepute, which was 
voted for by Messrs. Disney, Armstrong, Baldwin, Loudon and others of the 
Democratic party, on the p3SS3ge of the law." (6) 

1959 - H Sept. 30:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, James A. Briggs, auditor 
of Cuyahoga county, says: As much has been said about the unjust and op- 
pressive tax law of the state, passed last winter, I present the following 
illustration in defense of the law: Our Locofoco friends say the law does 
not tax bank stocks. Let us see. Judge Coe of Dover pays $64.47 tax 
yearly on land property he owns, valued at $19,192. If this $19,192 were 



352

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN, 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1960 - 1962 

TAXATION (Cont'd) 

invested in bank stock, at six per cent, the rate at which bank capital 
is taxed upon net profits, his tax would amount to $115.15.2. Thus, we 
see, the judge pays less tax on personal property than he would if it 
were turned into bank stock. 

"And what is here shown will prove true in every instance in the State 
of Ohio, in proportion to the amount of the tax levied. - What would our 
Locofoco friends have? They favor a plan whereby bank stock holders 
would be taxed much above property holders, and yet they profess to be 
for equality. To have taxes equal, I believe the cash valuation should 
be adopted, and all kinds of property should be taxed." (10) 

1960 - H Oct. 27; ed:2/l - At a recent sale of stock belonging to an estate 
near Circleville, 0., an imported cow sold for $220, a cow and bull calf 
for $200, a number of others at prices varying from $80 to $70, etc.; 
yokes of oxen at $67 to $91, and 300 hogs at $6.50 to $7.57 per head. It 
seems to us there can be no better evidence of the justice and necessity 
of having a tax law based upon a cash valuation of property, than is 
given by the above sale. The justice of taxing hogs will be readily ad- 
mitted by all who wish to do right. 

"We hope the Legislature will revise our tax law, and fix upon a just 
and equitable one, so that the burdens of government will fall equally 
upon all who are protected by our laws and constitution." (4) 

1961 - H Dec. 17:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Tax Payer" says: I 
see that some Loco members of the Ohio legislature say that there shall 
be no change in our system of taxation, unless bank stock is taxed like 
any other property. The problem, however, resolves itself into how to 
tax the different banks. Obviously a free, or stock bank, would be un- 
justly treated if its capital were taxed, while the capital of a state 
bank was not. 

"If you tax the banks for mere local purposes, it would be manifestly 
unjust toward non-resident stockholders; and if you tax the resident, the 
others escape entirely, and so of two stockholders here, living within 
ten rods of each other, but on opposite sides of the citv line, and we 
happen to know a citizen through whose house our city line runs. How 
would you tax him? Where he eats his dinner or where he sleeps? for he 
might do the one out of the city and the other within it. A bank in one 
city or township might be subjected to heavy taxation, and in an adjoin- 
ing one to none at all." (12) 

1962 - H Dec. 20; ed:2/l - We are surprised to see that the Ohio assembly 
is disregarding the matter of taxation. This will not do. The people 
demand an equal and just tax law, and it is the duty of the legislators 
to comply. 

"The ad valorem principle is the only just and equal one that can be 
adopted. A man should pay taxes in proportion to what he is worth." 

It is to be hoped that the members from the pork raising regions of 
the state will not oppose any attempt to tax their industry equally with 



353

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1963 - 1966 

TAXATION (Cont'd) 

all others; for up to this time they have stubbornly refused to have 

their products levied on. 

"Give the people a just and equal tax law - let all kinds of property 
protected by law be taxed; and then the representatives of the people 
may be greeted on their return with, 'well done, faithful servants.'" (7) 

See also Tariff 

TEACHERS. See Schools &amp; Seminaries - Teachers 

TELEGRAPH 

1963 - H Feb. 25; ed:3/l - The operations on Morse's telegraph between 
Washington and Baltimore have been discontinued in consequence of lack 
of funds. 

"Congress should make another appropriation forthwith. Professor 
Morse has achieved a National honor, and the Nation should not act 
niggardly towards him." (1) 

1964 - H July 12; ed:2/l ■ Henry O'Reilley, formerly of Rochester, has 
completed arrangements with the patentees of the magnetic telegraph to 
extend lines from Albany to Harrisburg, and to Pittsburgh and Wheeling 
by next spring - later, to Cincinnati and Detroit. O'Reilley further 
contemplates a network of western lines some 3,000 miles in extent. 

"The benefits of this wonderful invention are to be extended to the 
West," (4) 

1965 - H Aug. 4; ed:3/2 • A complete line of telegraph will soon connect 
New Haven and Buffalo, at the same time extending to New York, Boston, 
Albany, and Philadelphia. 

"The steam horse now brings intelligence from Boston and New York in 
three days, but when news mounts the wings of lightning to Buffalo, it 
will reach us in some 16 hours! and when the wires shall be extended to 
Cleveland, as they doubtless will be, the hours will be changed to less 
than seconds! What an astonishing triumph of mind over space! Friends 
hundreds of miles apart, talking as if face to face." (4) 

1966 - H Aug. 19; ed:3/l - Surely, there is no calculating the incalculable 
amount of knowledge in the world, nor the vast changes which the Morse 
telegraph is destined to bring about. We had often wished for an invention 
to set down our thoughts as fast as they flitted through the brain, and now 
the Morse telegraph, improved in design, does this for us, sending these 
thoughts thousands of miles to be set down in far away lands. Still, agree- 
able as is this discovery, there are pangs of regret for the departing goose 
quill, so long honored by the wise and good. 

"Ah, surely, its days are numbered, and it will soon remain for some 
lightning wrought telegraph to print (not write) its funeral eulogy." (4) 



354

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1967 - 1971 

TELEGRAPH (Cont'd) 

1967 - H Nov. 3; ed:3/l - We learn that Dr. Boynton has arrived, and 
will entertain our citizens with lectures on the Electro Magnetic Tele- 
graph, which instrument he will exhibit in complete operation at the 
Empire hall, on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. 

We should judge from the tone of the public press in the Eastern 
cities where the Dr. has been lecturing, that the scientific and curious 
will enjoy a rich treat. He comes authorized by Professor Morse, and is 
prepared to give any information upon the subject. We advise all to go 
and hear. (verbatim) (2) 

1968 - H Nov. 4; ed:2/l - We hope to see a full attendance of citizens at 
the Empire hall this evening, as it is desirable that all should under- 
stand the operations of lightning talk. The telegraph will be in opera- 
tion from the Atlantic to Buffalo next spring, and during the season ^ 
arrangements will probably be made to extend the line farther west. 

"One object of the Lectures is to awaken an interest on the subject by 
exhibiting the mode of conveying intelligence which is destined to work 
wonders by enabling city to talk with city!" (3) 

1969 - H Dec. 2; ed:2/l - Contracts are now out for the construction of 
1,107 miles of telegraph in the east, the amount of wires required for 
this work being estimated at 188,190 pounds. Work is also proposed on a 
line to connect the Atlantic states and the Mississippi valley, including 
the Ohio and lake county. 

"In the course of a year from this time, there is reason to believe 
that the most distant sections of the Union will be conducted by Magnetic 
Telegraphs." (7) 

TEMPERANCE 

1970 - H Jan. 4; ed:3/l - The convention of the Ohio Temperance society 
was held in Columbus, 0. recently. 

We commend to the attention of the public that portion of the proceed- 
ings relating to a change of license laws of the state so that the people 
of each township may determine by their votes whether licensed taverns or 
groceries to sell ardent spirits shall exist among them or not. The reso- 
lution on the subject was adopted with great unanimity, and we presume a 
like unanimity will exist among the people of the state in its favor when 
the matter is fully understood. 

"The practice of Temperance by communities is so salutary in a pecu- 
niary point of view, to say nothing of its benign influence on the morals 
and happiness of individuals and families, that every movement tending to its 
advancement should receive the cordial support of taxpayers in particular. 
Intemperance and taxation for the support of paupers go hand in hand, and 
men who encourage the first cannot with propriety complain of the burden 
of the latter." (7) 

1971 - H Jan. 7:2/3,4 - The quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County Total 
Abstinence society was held in Brighton on Jan. 1. John A. Foote, Esq., 
presided. The morning session opened with a prayer by the Rev. Thomas Lee 



355

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1972 - 1975 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

of Brooklyn. Temperance reports from S. Storer of Brooklyn, Freeman of 

Parma, Messrs. Giddings and Elisha Taylor of Cleveland, Haines of Strongs- 

ville, Burke Oi Newburg, and J. F. Hanks of East Cleveland were read. 

On motion of Elisha Taylor, arrangements for an evening meeting were made. 

Haines, Freeman, Giddings, Dowd, and Hudson were appointed on a committee 

to decide where the April meeting of the society will be held. 

The afternoon session convened at two p.m. and opened with a prayer by 
Reverend White. It was decided by the committee to bold the April meeting 
in East Cleveland in the Methodist church. 

At the evening session, M. F. Norton presided. The Reverend Breck 
delivered the prayer. Giddings spoke briefly on the past efforts of the 
temperance cause, the advance to its present position, and showed to 
some extent the physiological effects of alcohol. At the close a vote of 
thanks was tendered the speaker, (21) 

1972 - H Jan, 8; ed:3/2 - A Temperance meeting will be held in the Bethel 
on Thursday evening at 7 o'clock. Mr. Kellogg, from New England, an ex- 
perienced lecturer, will address the meeting. Go and hear him. (verbatim) 

(1) 

H Jan. 18; ed:3/2 - See United States Navy 

1973 - H Jan. 29:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, H. Dean says: While 
looking over the report of the last quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga 
County Temperance society, published in the HERALD of Jan. 15, we no- 
ticed a mistake: The report says: "Rockport. Two Societies, No meet- 
ings since last winter. Numbers the same as last reported - cause on the 
decline." 

We have held weekly meetings throughout the town, and still continue 
them. We have enrolled about 50 new members this winter. Our society 
contains over 360 i;;embers under 30 years of age, and is fast increasing, 

(3) 

1974 - H Feb. 7; ed:3/l A rerent letter from Father Matthew, the cele- 
brated apostle of temperance, says that he still hopes to visit the United 
States. 

"His pecuniary embarrassments prevented the contemplated visit in June 
last, but owing to the liberality of kind friends, these have been so far 
obviated that he will soon be able to resume his exertions in the sacred 
cause of temperance," (I) 

1975 - H Feb. 17:3/1 • The undersigned having been appointed a committee 
to make arrangements for the temperance meeting to take place on Feb, 24, 
announce that it will begin its session, simultaneously with other similar 
gatherings throughout the world. The meeting will be held in the Method- 
ist Episcopal church in Cleveland at eleven a.n'. Delegates from all 
temperance societies in Ohio, together with oilier citizens friendly to 

the temperance enterprise, are invited to attend. 

Elisha Taylor, John A. Foote, Alex'r Seymour, B. Rouse, M. Miller, 
J. Holt, H. Kingsbury, D. Nickerson, committee. (3) 



356

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1976 - 1980 . . 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

1976 - H Mar. 12:2/4 - The Cuyahoga county Total Abstinence society will 
hold their next quarterly meeting at the Methodist church in East Cleve- 
land, on Wednesday, the 2d of April next, at half past 10 a.m. 

Ample accommodations will be provided by the citizens, for delegates, 
and the sessions of the meeting will be enlivened with appropriate music, 
prepared for the occasion. Several good speeches are expected. - Let 
the friends of the cause, in every township, come and enjoy an intellectual 
and moral treat. J. H. Hanks, Sec'y. (verbatim) (2) 

1977 - H Apr. 14:3/2 - The Cuyahoga County Total Abstinence society con- 
vened at the Methodist church in the Village of East Cleveland on Apr. 2. 

Samuel W. Baldwin was appointed chairman pro tem. The meeting was 
opened with a prayer by the Reverend Dr. Aiken, and the minutes of the 
last meeting were read and approved. 

A committee was appointed to prepare resolutions and suggest appropri- 
ate business for the action of the society. 

Reports of the different townships were read and discussed. (10) 

1978 - H May 9:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "W." says: In this time 
of inactivity in the cause of temperance, it may not be known to our 
citizens that the friends of seamen are holding weekly meetings at the 
Bethel and that their success in obtaining signatures and reforming in- 
ebriates is equal if not superior to anything known by them since the 
formation of the Marine Total Abstinence society. 

Among the speakers of the last meeting was Dr. Aikin of this city. 
The doctor took up the subject generally and spoke of the mighty influence 
that had been exerted by the temperance reformation and of the interest 
that is now felt on the subject in foreign countries, as well as our own. 

"Success to the 'Tars.' May they soon command the respect to which 
their valuable services entitle them, always have 'a shot in the locker,' 
and when the voyage of life is over, secure a safe entrance into the haven 
of eternal rest." (16) 

1979 - H May 26; ed:3/I - "There is great need that the friends of temper- 
ance in this city should address themselves to the work of reform with 
increased industry and well directed efforts. The grog-shops are making 
sad havoc in the community, and the practice of dram-drinking, the sure 
stepping stone to drunkenness and ruin, is far from being an obsolete evil. 

"The Courts of several counties in Ohio have nobly refused to grant 
liquor-selling licenses, and we trust that ere long Ohio may imitate the 
proud example of Tennessee in refusing to license altogether." 

Mr. Sizer will lecture on temperance in the Stone church on Tuesday 
evening. May 27. We hope to see a general attendance. (4) 

1980 - H June 9:2/4 - The Cuyahoga County Total Abstinence Society will 
hold a Quarterly meeting at the Presbyterian church in Brecksville Centre, 
on Wednesday the 18th of June, at 10 a.m. It is hoped that the present 
state of the cause will bring out a large number of Delegates from every 
society in the county. J. F. Hanks, Sec'y. (verbatim) (1) 



357

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1981 - 1987 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

1981 ■ H June 13:2/4 • At the regular monthly meeting of the Mayfield T. 
A. Society, held on the 8th inst., after hearing an able address from 
the Rev. Mr. Branch, the following resolutions were presented by Mr. 
Humphrey and adopted: 

Resolved, That our hearty thanks are due to John A. Foote and Edward 
Wade, Esqs., for their able and eloquent efforts, in the cause of humanity 
and religion, to induce the judges of our county court at their last 
session to grant no licenses to sell intoxicating drinks; 

Resolved, That the secretary of the society furnish a copy of the above 
resolution for publication. A. L. Dille Sec'y. (verbatim) (2) 

1982 - H July 1; ed:2/l - Although the eye of the philanthropist is still 
frequently pained by the revolting sight of a dram-drinking drunkenness, 
the change for the better within the recollection of the middle-aged is 
truly cheering. The license laws have been discussed and improved in 
many states, and in some - Tennessee, for example, and a noble one, too - 
public sentiment sustains the doing away of the entire license system and 
enforces a strict prohibition of retailing for tippling purposes. In 
Summit county eight temperance tavern licenses were granted by the late 
court of common pleas, and but three liquor licenses. There is now no 
licensed liquor tavern in Akron. 

"It is earnestly to be hoped that the Courts in Cuyahoga will ere long 
emulate the example of the bench elsewhere on this important subject." 

(10) 

1983 - H July 2:2/5 - The Cleveland Marine Total Abstinence Society will 
hold a meeting, by request, at the Ohio City Exchange, this evening, at 

8 o'clock. John Proudfoot, Sec'y. (1) 

1984 - H July 2; ed:3/l - The impression in favor of temperance, made by 
the lecture of Mr. Darman delivered Monday evening in Buffalo, was so 
salutary as to add 223 names to the total abstinence pledge. 

"We hope he will continue his labors." (verbatim) (1) 

1985 - H July 10:3/1 - Mr. Tipton, agent of the state temperance society, 
will speak in Ohio City on July 14, and in Cleveland the following day. 
The speaker is admirably fitted for his task, and it will behoove all 
friends of temperance to be present at these talks. (2) 

1986 - H July 14; ed:3/l - Tipton, agent of the state temperance society, 
will address tlie citizens of Ohio City on July 21 and the citizens of 
Cleveland on July 22. Green, the reformed gambler, will also speak. 

"No man or woman can be a friend of the cause, who will be absent on 
such an occasion for a slight cause." (2) 

1987 - H July 18; ed:3/l - Mr. Tipton, agent of the state temperance 
society, who spoke here yesterday, was given a donation of $50 by the 
audience, for the continuation of the work of his organization. 

"According to our notion, this is the best way of showing an interest 
in any cause, and is the best evidence of the qualifications of an Agent." 

(2) 



358

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1988 - 1992 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

1988 - H Aug. 19:2/4 - The Marine Total Abstinence society, will hold a 
meeting in the Bethel, at half past 7 this evening. Addresses may be 
expected. The public are invited to attend. (verbatim) (1) 

1989 - H Aug. 23; ed:3/l - Dr. Jewett, of Massachusetts, who is well 
known throughout New England as an able and distinguished advocate of the 
cause of temperance, will deliver an address in this city on Thursday 
evening next. 

We hope our citizens will turn out, for there is much need that a new 
energy should be given to this reform in this city. 

Dr. J. is accompanied by Mr. Warren, of Boston, who has done much to 
advance this good cause. We trust that notice will be generally given of 
the coming of these gentlemen among us on so good an errand. (verbatim) 

(2) 

1990 - H Aug. 23:3/1 - The Teetotaller And The Grog Seller. - Messrs. 
Dean and McDowell are holding temperance meetings on a new plan, which 
appears attractive and effective. Dean advocates the cause of total 
abstinence with marked ability, while McDowell places himself in the 
position of a grog-seller, and sustains his position as best as he may. 

A second meeting will be held in front of the court house this evening, 
and all engaged in the traffic or addicted to swallowing the poison, had 
better be on hand to see how good a case can be made out for them, 
(verbatim) (2) 

1991 - H Aug. 27:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "A Friend of Temperance" 
says: The friends of temperance in some parts of the state propose to 
petition for a change of our license laws at the next session of the legis- 
lature, which change shall leave the question of license or no license to 
be determined by voters in each township. 

"No one can deny that this would be a democratic measure, but is the 
State morally prepared for this change?... It would seem advisable that 
there should be thorough inquiry throughout the State, before measures 
are taken to bring it before the Legislature." (4) 

1992 - H Aug. 27; ed:2/2 - A subscriber signing himself "Mechanic," lauds 
the efforts of Dean and McDowell, who are boosting temperance with their 
novel discussion, "Teetotaller and Grog Seller," in the city streets. He 
urges that friends of temperance aid these speakers and advance the cause 
in Cleveland. 

"We do not know but the lecturers above spoken of by 'A Mechanic' may 
ht doing good, but they are surely taking a strange course for such re- 
sults. From what we have been told, it would perhaps be as well that they 
should so direct their efforts, that less of the spirit of mobism might 
be exhibited from their hearers than has been the case at some of their 
discussions. Otherwise the Marshal should be directed thitherward in his 
official capacity." (6) 



359

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1993 - 1997 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

1993 - H Aug. 28; ed:2/2 - We have been told that our readers so con- 
strued our remarks yesterday regarding the course of the temperance lec- 
tures in the street as to suppose we approved the throwing of stale ejjgs. 

"We certainly shall never countenance any rowdyism, and in our remarks, 
in saying the Marshal's course should be directed thitherward, we had in 
view the official duties requisite from him in protecting men like these 
lecturers from the evil practices of some who, incited from fear of their 
pecuniary interests suffering, would urge others to the commission of 
lawless acts if they themselves did not cast the stone." (4) 

1994 - H Aag. 28; ed:3/l - P rents do you know how your boys behave them- 
selves? If not, then go into the court house yard some evening, when 
Messrs. McDowell &amp; Dean are lecturing on the subject of intemperance, and 
see your boys smoking cigars, and hear them making all kinds of noise, 

and belching out oaths that would make an Algerine blush. (verbatim) 

(1) 

1995 - H Aug. 28:3/1 - Rf member the adlress on Temperance of Doct. Jewett, 
at the Biptist church this evening at 1/2 past 7 o'clock. Go one, go all. 
(verbatim) (1) 

1996 - H Sfpt. 1; ed:2/l - For ten dajs now Dean and McDowell have been 
presenting their novel temperance discussions in the streets and in the 
court house square. McD)Well, an out-and-out temperance man, takes the 
grog seller's part and defends liquor consumption, while Dean takes the 
abstainer's side, merely to show the evil effects of the poisonous draught. 
The lectures are drawing huge crowds and reforming drinkers admirably. 

It is stated by these two lecturers that there are 140 liquor places 
in Cleveland, ten only of which are licensed! The remainder make drunkards, 
though not in the manner provided by the statutes of Ohio. 

"We hope our citizens will give these men their aid and support, and 
that intemperance will be driven from among us. The temperance army is 
strong in Cleveland, if its members will only act in concert 

"Parents especially should give their influence to this good cause, so 
that their children may be saved from the miseries of drunkenness." (11) 

1997 - H Sept. 2:2/2,3 - In a letter to the editor, "A Mechanic" says: 
Quite loo long have the citizens of Cleveland been sleeping on the subject 
of temperance. The meetings of Dean and McDowell on the streets have been 
well attended, but more by rum-sellers intent on breaking up the temperance 
discussion, than by liquor-abhorring citizens. 

"Temperance men, where were you, that you were not beside those heroes 
of the cause?... Now, brother Mechanics, and brother Laborers, and friends 
of tempemnce, and lovers of a quiet home, and good order in our city, and 
friends of the broken hearted wives and starving, ragged children, it seems 
to me the time has now come, when we should make a tremendous effort to 
redeem our otherwise delightful, peaceful city, from the baneful, soul- 
destroying, and peace-disturbing influence of Alcohol. Are you all ready? - 
Come then to the rescue; invite your neighbor; bring with you the intem- 
perate, the moderate drinker. Let us have a three months temperance campaign. 



360

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 1998 - 2002 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

And by the blessing of God on these efforts, we may, yes! we shall, see 

the 140 dram shops in our city close their traffic in ardent spirits." (9) 

1998 - H Sept. 2; ed:3/l - Our zealous, good natured temperance advocates 
are not to be outdone on any task. While one of them was speaking to a 
crowd in front of the court house last evening, a rum-sucker whose spirits 
had run down to his heels, declared that he could beat any cold water 
fellow in jumping. - "Come up here and try it, friend," said the speaker. 
The challenge was accepted, the crowd gave back, the jump took place, and 
cold water planted itself nearly a foot ahead! - The crowd shouted some, 
and at the expense of alcohol's representative. (verbatim) (2) 

1999 - H Sept. 2; ed:3/2 - Warren county's court of common pleas has 
adopted a rule whereby, if the majority of voters in any of the county's -v. 
townships should remonstrate against liquor sales in their locality, the 
court will refuse to license any tavern therein. As a result, all but 

two of the townships have decreed against liquor. 

"Honor to the Court and people of Warren county, for they have placed 
themselves in a truly enviable position on the Temperance question.... 

"Would that every county in Ohio could be persuaded to emulate an exam- 
ple so noble and so man elevating." (6) 

H Sept. 2:2/2 - See Buildings 

2000 - H Sept. 4:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Cold Water" says: 
Good morning, Mr. B. What do you think about these temperance lecturers 
who are presenting their talks in the streets and in front of the grog 
shops? 

"Well, it seems to me they are doing good. And you should encourage 
them. It is the duty of every good citizen, and the especial duty of 
every parent, to aid and support them by their presence and with their 

means A-1 good citizens must take hold of this cause of temperance, 

and aid it forward. And it is your duty as a citizen, as a parent, as a 
friend to your country, to stand by the Truth." (12) 

2001 - H Sept. 4:3/2 - While Rev. Gardner Dean was lecturing on the sub- 
ject of temperance yesterday at the Points under the hill, several slaves 
of alcohol kicked over the barrel on which he was standing, and hurled 
him to the ground, breaking his arm and injuring him internally. The 
assailants committed to jail by an aroused crowd were: John McKibben, 
Alexander Reed, and Marcus Howe. 

Several minutes after the attack, a drunken sailor attempted the same 
trick on McDowell, Dean's associate, but was given the bum's rush. (4) 

2002 - H Sept. 9:2/4 - The annual meeting of the Cuyahoga County Total 
Abstinence society, will be holden at the First Congregational church in 
Chagrin Falls, on Wednesday, Oct. 1st at 10-1/2 a.m. The annual election 
of officers of the society will take place and much other important business 
ought to be transacted, at this meeting. Let no township omit to send 
Delegates, J. F. Hanks, Sec'y, (verbatim) (1) 



361

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2003 - 2007 

TEMPIiRANCE (Cont'd) 

2003 - H S°pt. 11:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "A Mechanic" says: 

If I am correctly informed, 128 persons in this city are retailing liquor 
without a license. According to law, the city marshal is obliged to in- 
spect these grog shops. His failure to do so costs the city not only a 
great number of drunkards, but also a loss of $1,920 yearly in license 
fees, an amount nearly sufficient to construct eight public reservoirs 
for fire use, or a very respectable school house. 

"Will not our City authorities think of the above? for surely we as 
tax payers have a good deal of feeling on the subject." (6) 

2004 - H Sept. 13:3/2 • In a letter to the editor, "A Merchant" says: I 
notice "A Mechanic" blames the marshal for the large number of non-licensed 
groggeries in this city. In answer, I would say that I am credibly in- 
formed that the marshal has fully complied with his duty, and made returns 
to the mayor of the names and number of persons selling liquor without 
license, so that he has discharged his duty, and the responsibility rests 
upon other shoulders than his for prosecution not being commenced. (3) 

2005 - H Sept. 13:2/4 - There will be a meeting of the Young Men's 
Washingtonian Total Abstinence society, at the Methodist Episcopal church 
on Monday evening at 7-1/2 o'clock. We hope that all the friends of 
temperance will turn out. Messrs. Dean &amp; McDowell, will address the 
meeting. C, A, Vallette, Sec'y. (verbatim) (1) 

2006 - H Sept. 13; ed:3/2 - "Civis," who writes us a letter about the 
temperance speakers has probably not been a very attentive listener to 
the street temperance lectures, and has possibly mistaken the indecent 
langu'^ge heaped on the reformers by alcoholic votaries for the speech of 
the lecturers. 

"Sober men are not very apt to indulge in opprobrious epithets and 
indecent exp-essions, but if the lecturers alluded to are guilty of vio- 
lating the rules of strict propriety, we trust they will heed the rebuke 
of 'Civis' and become reformed reformers." 

That they spenk loudly and forcefully is demanded by the seriousness 
of the occasion, and by the great evil of grog-selling. "Virtue and human 
happiness will not be sufferers by such agitation." (5) 

2007 - H Sept. 13:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Civis" says: The use 
of filthy and obscene language is a sin against public decency, more so 
if uttered by public reformers and lecturers surh as the two temperance 
speakers who are in the city at present. These two are carrying on a noble 
work, but in a manner calculated to injure rather than reform, for their 
use of disgusting epithets is a mar on their reputation. 

"It appears to me that these are not the most persuasive words that can 
be used, and I should doubt the sincerity of men who would take so very 
contrary a course to arrive at their ostensible purpose.... 

"I am neither a Rumseller nor a Drunkard, and call on you not in support 
of Drink but Decency to insert this." (8) 



362

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2008 - 2015 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

2008 - H Sept. 16:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Howard" says: Permit 
me to call to your attention the many inconsistencies in our statutes on 
temperance. In one case, a law permits divorce if one of the married 
party persists in drunkenness for three years; on the other hand, there 

is a law authorizing the sale of liquor. Men are licensed to make drunk- 
ards, and after the man is legally made a drunkard, he is declared a law 
breaker. 

"Is it not better to have laws to prevent crime, than to legalize 
making criminals, and then punish the criminal after he is made such? 
'An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, ' is an old adage, and 
well applies to cases of this kind. Will not the friends of humanity 
bear this in mind, and petition our Legislature on this gross inconsistency 
of our statutes?" (4) 

2009 - H Sept. 22:2/4 - The Marine Total Abstinence society will meet at 
the Bethel on Tuesday evening. (verbatim) (1) 

2010 - H Sept. 22:3/1 - There will be a Temperance meeting this evening, 
at the M. E. Church on St. Clair street, at 7 o'clock. Messrs. Dean and 
McDowell and others will make addresses. (verbatim) (1) 

2011 - H Sept. 23:2/4 - There will be a meeting of the Young Men's 
Washingtonian Total Abstinence society at the Methodist E. Church, to- 
morrow evening, at 7 o'clock, for the purpose of re-organizing the Society. 
C. A. Vallette, Sec'y. (verbatim) (1) 

2012 - H Sept. 24:3/2 - At a meeting of the Young People's Temperance 
society of Cleveland held at the Methodist Episcopal church on Sept. 22, 
resolutions were adopted thanking Dean and McDowell for their temperance 
talks in the city streets, and recommending them to friends of the cause 
everywhere. (2) 

2013 - H Sept. 25:3/1 - Young Men's Total Abstinence Society. - This 
Society elected the following officers last evening: M. W. Miller, presi- 
dent; J. L. Smith, Vice President; C. A. Vallette, Secretary and Treasurer; 
J. Maplebeck and W. A. Foote, Stewards. (verbatim) (1) 

2014 - H Oct. 6; ed:3/l - The notice of Church's concert at the Methodist 
Episcopal church tonight should attract every friend of temperance. The 
popularity of these temperance meetings is due, no doubt, to the touching 
songs of Mr. Church which are interspersed throughout each meeting. 

"Those who are susceptible of being moved by the music of sweet sounds, 
who carry their hearts in their bosoms, and delight in the out-gush ings of 
a soul that is ever ready to weep with those that weep, and rejoice with 
'those that rejoice,' should by all means go and hear him." (3) 

2015 - H Oct. 8:3/2 - Mr. Fiester will lecture on Temperance near the Post 
Office at 8 o'clock to-morrow morning. He is a rare one, they do say. 
(verbatim) (1) 



363

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2016 - 2021 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

2016 - H Oct. 9; ed:3/l - Mr. Fiester gave the Cleveland public a speci- 
men of his tact as a Temperance lecturer this morning, and like dram- 
drinking it has created a thirst for more. He has appointed a meeting 
at the Baptist Church this evening, and all who would hear the important 
subject treated in a masterly manner should attend. Many of his illus- 
trations are capital, and he abounds in anecdotes and home-applications 
that fix the attention and tell with great force on dram-drinking, 
(verbatim) (2) 

2017 - H Oct. 16; ed:2/l - The Hartford COURANT of Oct. 10 savs that 
not more than 20 towns in Connecticut have elected commissioners in favor 
of granting liquor licenses. 

"The vote of the people of Connecticut is one of the most gratifying 
evidences of the healthy progress of Temperance principles we have seen, 
and we trust the cnming Legislature in Ohio will submit the whole question 
of licensing the retailing of ardent spirits to the power where it of 
right belongs - the people themselves." (2) 

2018 - H Oct. 16; adv:2/4 - The Young Men's T. A. Society, will meet in 
the Baptist Church, on Thursday evening, Oct. 16th, at 7 o'clock. As 
business of importance will be transacted a full attendance of members 

and others is expected. John L. Smith, Sec'y. (verbatim) (1) 

2019 - H Oct. 18:3/2 - In a letter to the editor, M. W. Miller, president 
of the Young Men's W. T. A. soinety of Cleveland, says, "By publishing 
the following resolutions passed unanimously by the Young Men's W. T. A. 
Society of this city, at their last meeting on Thursday evening, you will 
much oblige. 

Resolved, That this society hereby pledges itself to sustain all per- 
sons engaged in procuring evidence, and by other means endeavoring to 
secure the conviction of those who violate the liquor license law. 

Resolved, That these tidings be published in all the local papers as 
a warning to all offenders. (2) 

2020 - H Oct. 20; ed:2/4 • The economy of abstinence, if figured up well, 
will surprise all who have not thought of it. Say a person is a moderate 
drinker - two glasses a day will amount to $45.62 per annum. - With this 
sum, at present rates, he can purchase for himself - coat, vest and pants, 
$15; hat, $2; a dozen socks, $2; two pieces shirting muslin, $6; for his 
wife, 30 yards calico, 2.50; bonnet, $4; stockings and shoes, $4; an 
overcoat for self, $5; and a cloak for the wife, $3. (verbatim) (1) 

2021 - H Oct. 22:2/2 - The annual meeting of the Cuyahoga County Total 
Abstinence society was held at the Congregational church in Chagrin Falls, 
Oct. 1, at 1/2 past 10 a.m. Hiram W. Graves, Esq., president, was in 

the chair. 

The meeting was opened with prayer by Samuel Cozad, of East Cleveland. 
The minutes were read by the secretary, corrected and approved. 



364

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2022 - 2023 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

The secretary remarked that he, together with others, was being held 
liable for libel in publishing the assertion that the prosecuting attorney 
had not collected a single fine for a violation of the license laws. The 
secretary then laid before the meeting a copy from the prosecutor's books, 
showing that $146.05 in fines had been collected. 

Sidney Smith then said that he derived his information from a grand 
juror, who told him not that not a single fine had been collected by the 
prosecuting attorney, but that none had been paid in. 

H. W. Graves, Esq., and Harvey White were appointed as a committee to 
nominate officers for the ensuing year. (11) 

2022 - H Oct. 22:2/2,3 - The afternoon session of the temperance conven- 
tion at Chagrin Falls was taken up with reports of the townships. John 
Mipplebeck of Cleveland remarked that he never knew public opinion in --^, 
the same condition that it is in now. He had been somewhnt discouraged 
for fear we were falling back; but since Dean and McDowell had visited 

the city and had obtained several hundred names to the pledge of those 
who were on the "road to ruin," as he had formerly been, he thought things 
looked more favorable. These two gentlemen, by lecturing in the streets 
and before the taverns and doggeries, have produced such a revolution 
as he had never before witnessed. Several rum-holes have been shut up, 
and some rum taverns changed into temperance houses. 

Mapplebeck also spoke of having come over the hill called the "Hog's 
Back" a few years ago, and of tumbling out of the buggy three times. 
Now, he is a sober man and can ride over it without falling out at all. 
Mapplebeck then gave a detailed report of the Cleveland society from which 
he is a delegate. 

This report included an important document obtained from Seth A. 
Abbey, late marshal of the city of Cleveland, in which, after tabulating 
the number of arrests for drunkenness, he says: I have committed these 
persons without warrant, upon actual view, and a great proportion of them 
in the night time; some, quarreling with their wives, drunk, of course; 
some women, drunk, quarreling with their husbands and disturbing the 
whole neighborhood; some drunk and fighting, some wallowing in the mud, 
and I committed them to save their lives. Many of them I have drayed up 
the hill at 12 and one o'clock at night. They had been found, dead drunk, 
in the mud in the fall of the year and would otherwise have perished. 
By committing them, I have prolonged a miserable existence. In looking 
over my list, I find a number of them who have been drayed from the 
street to the jail, and from the jail to the poor-house, are now in their 
graves. (25) 

2023 - H Oct. 23:2/2-4 - The reports of the various townships to the 
County Total Abstinence society annual meeting were as follows: Warrens- 
ville - There never was a township where the females are so devoted and 
the men so cross-grained. The largest proportion of their temperance 
society are women. There are three saloons which should be burned; 
Royalton - The young people here have organized a temperance group, and 



365

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2024 

TEMPERANCE ^Cont'd) 

are determined to put down the lone grog-shop in the town. The regular 
society has 140 members. Orange: There was a society here, but none 
now. A few lectures would do the town good. Chagrin Falls: Curtis 
Bui lard, president of the society here, confessed that the group of 350 
had fallen down somewhat in their work. The most influential men in 
the town are against temperance. So what can be done? Even Burnet, a 
Campbellile preacher and disciple, sells liquor, though he promises to 
tear out his bar soon. Solon: S. D. Kelley, Esq., says the temperance 
organization here is three years old and boasts 350 members; there are 
no grog shops in the town, and no drunk cases on the docket. Bedford: 
H. W. Graves, Esq., reports the rum-sellers here are fast passing away. 
It is a shame, though, that abstinence men patronize any other place 
than Dunham's Fountain House, a temperance place. Drinking is looked 
on here as one of the lowest of crimes. 

After these several township reports, S. D. Kelley presented the 
following resolutions: That liquor drinking is immoral, unnecessary, 
and ruinous; that the liquor-seller is in effect a murderer; that it is 
better to keep the young from becoming drunkards, than to attempt a re- 
form among the old drinkers; that the youth of the nation should be 
organized into a cold water army, inimical to drunkenness; that all ef- 
forts be made to aid the grand jury in convicting liquor license law 
transgressors; that the aid of women be sought, especially since woman's 
influence is so powerful in any cause; that a meeting of the state tem- 
perance society be held at Columbus in December. 

The nominating committee then announced the following list of men, 
all of whom were elected officers by acclamTtion: S. D. Kelley, Esq., of 
Solon, president; John A. Foot, Esq., of Cleveland, vice president; C. 
T. B!akeslee of Cleveland, corresponding secretary; J. F. Hanks, record- 
ing secretary; and T. C. Severance, treasurer. James A. Briggs, Esq., 
was then chosen delegate of the meeting to the state convention to be 
held this winter. 

At the evening session, speakers Ahaz Merchant, W. F. Giddings, and 
others stressed the economy of abstinence, pointing out that of the 120 
persons kept in the Cleveland poor house for the past year, only one was 
there for a cause other than dissipation in liquor. The speakers stated 
also that total abstinence could save the county $3.9S0 yearly, the sum 
needed to prosecute intemperance cases for one year here. 

The convention then adjourned until the first Wednesday in January, 
1846, when they will convene in Cleveland. (44) 

2024 - H Oct. 23:2/5 - Temperance Notice. - There will be a Meeting of 
the Young People's Washingtonian Total Abstinence Society this evening, 
Sept. 23d, at 7 o'clock precisely, at the Baptist church. The Society 
will be addressed by the Rev. Mr. Buhre of the city of Baltimore. Also, 
the Committee of the Temperance Picnic Party will report. It is the wish 
of the Society that every member be present, as there will be business 
of important to transact. By order of the Society, John L. Smith, Sec'y. 
(verbatim) (2) 



366

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2025 - 2032 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

2025 - H Oct. 23:2/5 - The Young People's Washingtonian Total Abstinence 
Society of Cleveland announce their sponsorship of a Temperance Picnic 
Party at the Empire Hall, on the evening of Oct. 30. The eloquent Mr. 
Gaily will be present, as will also the Chagrin Falls Temperance Band. 
Refreshments, on the Temperance Principle, will be served. (3) 

2026 - H Oct. 23; ed:3/l - The Young Men's Temperance group have hit upon 
a pleasant way to raise their winter expenses - at their picnic party in Em- 
pire hall. "As a people we too seldom enjoy holidays and festivals, and it 
is meet that we should more often unbend the mind and relax the brow, lest 
the vexation of life and anxieties of business curdle the 'milk of human 
kindness' which Nature designed should be kept sweet and nutritious so long 
as her cocoa-nut shell holds together." (3) 

2027 - H Oct. 25:2/1 • The Maysville, Ky., EAGLE says of Mr. Gaily, who 
is to speak at the picnic party of the Cleveland Young Men's Temperance 
group, Oct. 30: Mr. G. is a young man of fine talents and high promise. 
He has just completed his study of the law, and, we are glad to know, 
will make Kentucky his future residence. He draws full crowds at all 
times to his talks on behalf of total abstinence. (3) 

2028 • H Oct. 30:2/2 - The Pic-Nic - Our Temperance friends have made 
provision for a grand entertainment at the Empire Hall this evening, and 

a crowd will be there. (verbatim) (1) 

2029 - H Oct. 31; ed:3/l - The temperance picnic at Empire hall yesterday 
was a good one and undoubtedly netted a handy sum for the worthy Young 
Men's Temperance society. However, the program was too long. "The pro- 
duction was doubtless a good one, but to an audience tantalized by the 
'savory smell of oysters,' it appeared as long as the Bucolics of Virgil 

and quite as pastoral." (3) 

2030 - H Nov. 12:2/4 - The Young People's Washingtonian Total Abstinence 
society will hold its regular meeting at the Baptist church tomorrow. 
Addresses by prominent citizens may be expected, and the public is invited. 

(1) 

2031 - H Nov. 19; ed:2/4 - The Rev. E. Beecher of Boston said, in a recent 
temperance speech, that "there is not a muscle nor a bone in my frame that 
ever felt the power of alcohol." 

"What father would not be proud of such a speech as this from his son, 
and what a generation shall we have in America, when all our young men 
can use the same language?" (2) 

2032 - H Nov. 27:2/4 - Temperance Meetings. - The Y.P.W.T.A. Society 
will hold their Regular Meeting at the Basement of the Baptist church, 

this evening, at 7 o'clock. J. S. Herrick, Sec'y. (verbatim) (1) 



367

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2033 - 2039 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

2033 - H Nov. 28; ed:2/l - A petition is going the rounds throughout the 
state, requesting that the Ohio legislature leave the question of liquor 
license grants to the various cities and villages, i.e., that each commu* 
nity should be given the opportunity to declare, by formal vote, whether 
or not the courts are to grant liquor permits in that certain locality. 

"We hope our citizens will generally sign and forward this petition 
to the Legislature, at an early day in the session, and that that body 
will have the sagacity and moral courage to pass such a law as is there 
asked for, promptly." (7) 

2034 - H Dec. 3:2/4 • The Young Men's Washingtonian Total Abstinence 
society will meet tomorrow in regular session at the Wesleyan Methodist 
church. A number of addresses will be given. (1) 

2035 - H Dec. 5:2/4 • The Cuyahoga County Total Abstinence society will 
hold its next quarterly meeting at the 2d Presbyterian church, in the city 
of Cleveland, on Wednesday, the 7th of January, 1846, at half past 10 a.m. 

Let delegates pour in from every society in the county, ample accommo- 
dations for whom will be made by the temperance folks of the city. 

Several interesting speakers are expected to be present, and a report 
of the state convention will be read. J. F. Hanks, Sec 'v. (verbatim) 

(1) 

2036 • H Dec. 11; ed:3/l - The delegates have been appointed in several 
parts of Ohio to attend the state temperance convention at Columbus on 
Dec. 17. 

"Is Cuyahoga County to be represented in this Convention? If so, who 
will go?" (1) 

2037 - H Dec. 11; ed:3/l - The Clermont COURIER says that in four of the 
five counties of which that Judicial District is composed, the decision of 
the courts have been adverse to licensing establishments for the retail of 
intoxicating drinks. The president judge of the district remarked that the 
only case of assault and battery that has been brought before him was com- 
mitted in the county that continued to grant licenses. 

"Such facts... have been adduced to show the necessity of decisive ac- 
tion on this subject." (2) 

2038 - H Dec. 20; ed:2/l - Today's issue contains a story of the ruin 
brought by alcohol, and is written by A. Y. N., one of the best women 
writers. We trust parents will not fail to read it. "Would that the 
wine-cup might be banished from all the friendly calls and approaching 
holiday festivals in our city. Will not the Ladies of all ranks discoun- 
tenance its use, and thus set an example so worthy American women?" (2) 

2039 - H Dec. 20:3/1,2 - In a letter to the editor, dated Dec. 11, "A. Y. 
N." says: "Those who had the privilege of listening to Mr. Gally's elo- 
quent address to the Ladies, on the subject of Temperance, will recollect 



368

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2040 - 2041 

TEMPERANCE (Cont'd) 

the almost unbounded power ascribed to female influence.... No careful 
observer can fail of perceiving that woman wields a power in the forma- 
tion of human character, that is inconceivably great; and that her re- 
sponsibility is proportionably increased." 

Beware of attaching ridicule to the temperance pledge, for it is the 
only pledge of safety to thousands. 

"If the responsibility of forming the infant mind rests principally 
upon the mother, recollect that it is a reflected influence that she 
exerts." (24) 

2040 - H Dec. 22:2/3 - A business meeting of the Young People's W. T. • 
Abstinence society will be held at Liberty hall on Dec. 24. Important 
business will be discussed. (1) 

2041 - H Dec. 27:2/3,4 - The Ohio State Temperance society met in the 
First Presbyterian church on Dec. 17. The meeting was called to order 
by the president, Governor Hartley. 

At the afternoon session J. M. Clarke was appointed assistant secre- 
tary. There was an animated discussion, extending through the afternoon 
and evening session upon resolutions reported by the business committee. 

The convention re-convened on Dec. 18, with S. Galloway, Esq., in 
the chair. A committee was appointed to draft resolutions for the adop- 
tion of the convention. 

At the afternoon session S. B. Hubbard, Esq., was called to the chair. 
The following resolutions were adopted: This convention solemnly vows 
to wipe out from our statute books all laws which encourage the sale of 
intoxicating drinks; the practice of distilling grain in our state is a 
great and growing evil; any person selling grain to a distiller for the 
purpose of distillation is guilty of a gross immorality; this convention 
recommends mass meetings of the friends of the cause; no member should 
aid in any way the retailing of intoxicating liquors; we regard the in- 
fluence of many of the wealthy and influential classes of the community 
as one of the greatest obstacles to the advance of our reformation; it 
is highly improper for temperance men to patronize places where intoxi- 
cating liquors are sold. 

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, 
the Hon. H. H. Leavitt; vice president, Samuel Galloway, Esq., recording 
secretary, John Greiner, Esq.; corresponding secretary, S. M. Smith, M.D. 

At the evening session the following resolutions were adopted: We 
memorialize the legislature to amend the present laws regulating the 
sale of intoxicating drinks so as to submit whether the licenses shall 
be granted in the respective wards, precincts, and townships of the 
counties in this state; the secretary be directed to present to the 
senate and house a copy of the resolution on the license question. (26) 

See also Alcoholic Liquors; Hotels &amp; Inns; Intoxication; Theaters 

TEXT BOOKS. See Schools &amp; Seminaries • Text Books 



369

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2042 - 205 D 

PLACEHOLDER

TEXAS. See Annexation &amp; Expansion - Texas 

THEATER 

2042 - H May 13; ndv:2/4 - At the Apollo Hall. Theatre. Under manage- 
ment of Messrs. Chapman &amp; Hamilton of the New Orleans and Southern 
Theatres and late of the Detroit Theatre. Tuesday Evening, A new comedy 
called, THE FEMALE HUSBAND. Songs With the farce: SOLDIERS 
RETURN. Prices reduced to 25^. Commence at 7-1/2 o'clock. (2) 

2043 - H May 20; adv:2/3 - At the Apollo Hall tonight, the comedy, 
LOVER TO LEND, will be acted, after which, the Interlude of DUMB 
BELLE. The performance will conclude with the farce of LUCK IN A 

NAME. Price 25 cts. - Commence at 8 o'clock. (2) 

2044 - H May 21; adv:2/3 - At the Apollo Hall, to-night, will be acted 
the comedy, PERFECTION. The performance will conclude with the farce, 
NATURE AND PHILOSOPHY. Price 25 cts. Commence at 8 o'clock. (2) 

2045 - H May 27; adv:2/3 - At the Apollo Hall Theatre, Tuesday, Wednes- 
day, and Friday Evenings, May 27, 28, and 30 - The Drama of the FRENCH 
SPY - With musical accompaniment. Price 25^, 8 P. M. (2) 

2046 • H June 2; adv:2/4 - At the Apollo Hall on the 2nd of June, for Miss 
C. Chapman's benefit, a play entitled LUCILLE will be given, with the 
farce of the RENDEZVOUS. Price 25 cts. - Commence at 8. (2) 

2047 - H July 24:3/1 - Messrs. Hough &amp; Scoville open their Temperance 
exhibition in the Apollo hall to-morrow evening with Prof. Ingraham's 
drama of EDWARD MIDDLETON OR THE HUSBAND'S RETURN. (verbatim) 

(1) 

2048 - H July 26; adv:2/4 - Hough &amp; Scoville 's Western Temperance Exhi- 
bition. This Association having returned from a highly successful tour 
through the Eastern States, will open at Apollo Hall, this Evening with 
the great moral Drama, EDWARD MIDDLETON, OR THE HUSBAND'S RETURN. 

This Drama was repeated over 100 nights at the Boston Museum, and to 
the largest audiences ever congregated in that city. The Drama is the 
production of Prof. Ingraham. 

Admittance 25 cts. - Children half price. Doors open at 7-1/2. Per- 
formance commences at 8. (verbatim) (1) 

2049 - H July 29:3/1 - The favorite Temperance Drama of THE BROTHERS OR 
THE FALLEN SAVED will be performed at the Apollo this evening, by the 
Western Temperance company. The Drama was written expressly for the 
Company, and its former representations have drawn full and approving 
houses. (verbatim) (1) 

2050 - H July 31:3'T - Mr. Hough, one of the Managers of the Western 
Temperance Drama, takes a berefit tonight, on which occasion EDWARD 
MIDDLETON and the BROKEN MERCHANT will be performed. (verbatim) 

(1) 



370

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2051 - 2056 

THEATERS (Cont'd) 

2051 ■ H Aug. 2:3/1 - Hough &amp; Scoville's "Western Temperance Company" 
close their exhibitions in this city tonight, with two of their best 
Dramas - the TEMPERANCE SAILOR and the BROKEN MERCHANT. 

The Company go from here to Detroit, and from thence up the Lakes to 
Chicago. They will be liberally patronized wherever they go. (verbatim) 

(1) 

See also Entertainment; Music 

TOBACCO 

2052 - H Jan. 3; adv:4/l - The Virginia Tobacco Agency, No. 20, Superior 
St., Cleveland, Ohio. Frederick A. Keppler has always on hand a full 
assortment of all brands and descriptions of Virginia Manufactured 
Tobacco, direct from the Virginia Factories, as well as a large stock 

of all kinds of Imported Segars and Leaf Tobacco; for sale at New York 
prices. (1) 

2053 - H Jan. 3; adv. 2/7 - Tobacco &amp; Snuff • Mrs. Miller's and other 
Manufactures Fine Cut Chewing and Smoking, in pound, half pound and 
small papers. Maccoboy and Scotch Snuff, for sale low by the quantity 

at No. 6 Merchants' Exchange, Superior st. (verbatim) (1) 

2054 - H May 3:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, P. J. says: Two 
strangers called on a friendly family a short time since, and were put 
up for the night. They were soliciting money for the purpose of erect- 
ins? a seminary for the benefit of people of color. The next morning, 
after receiving aid, they left. I heard the hired girl complain that 
these men had given her some extra work in cleaning up their tobacco 
spittle, left in their sleeping rooms. 

"We could not help expressing our regret that a part of the money 
bestowed for a charitable purpose should be expended in such a 'needless 
self-indulgence' as the filthy and disgusting practice of chewing 
tobacco." (6) 

TRANSPORTATION. See Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Railroads; Roads &amp; Highways; Shipbuilding; Shipping &amp; Ships 

TRAVEL 

2055 - H Jan. 8; ed: 2/2-4 - "We find in the New York TRUE SUN an inter- 
esting sketch of Mr. Cushing's journey round the globe, with some of the 
way-side adventures of that gentleman. The narrative is no doubt authen- 
tic and reliable, and gives a bird's eye view of a long trip which has 
proved to be a successful mission." (33) 

2056 - H July 28:2/1 • In a letter to the editor, "Dock" says: "Toss 
your scissors out the window, kick over the paste pot, tell the devil 

to take over the helm of the HERALD, and jump on board the first steam- 
boat bound for the great west to join our party of 20 Clevelanders who 
are bound for Chicago on a pleasure trip. We left Cleveland on July 25 



371

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2057 

TRAVEL (Cont'd) 

and we are enjoying excellent meals and service aboard the EMPIRE. 

The Cleveland belles, noted as much as their city for attractiveness, 

have brought much attention to our party, and as a result social life 

aboard the steamer is abundant with waltzes, Spanish dances, and 

spirited flirtations such as can at any time be found in the deep re* 

cesses of an old fashioned window. We slumber but little, for pretty 

girls and moonlit nights are great antagonists to sleep. You know a 

thing or two in these matters, if my memory serves me right, but in your 

early days in the great west the frolics had their home principally in 

the sleigh ride; and if you will give me your experiences on my return, 

we will compare courting by steam now-a-days with courting by snow 20 

years back, and see if the style and form are about the same. More 

later. We are now in Detroit. (13) 

TRESPASSING 

2057 - H July 3:3/3 - The common council on June 30, adopted a resolu- 
tion to provide payment of $30 to John G. Stockley as an abatement from 
the lease he has on a Bath st. lot which is constantly being trespassed. 

(1) 



372

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2058 - 2061 

PLACEHOLDER

UNITED STATES ARMY 

2058 - H Aug. 9:2/4 - General Order, No. 2 - Head Quarters, 1st Brigade, 
9th Division. Chagrin Falls, Aug. 9, 1845 - Ordered, That the 1st Brig. 
9th Div., will meet at Dunham's, 2 miles east of Cleveland, on Thursday 
Aug. 21st, at 10 o'clock A.M., armed and equipped as the law directs, 

for three days Encampment. Commandants of Companies will notify their 
respective commands accordingly. Commissioned officers who have held 
office under the law of 1837, who are equipped, are by law entitled to 
attend said encampment, and are respectfully invited to do so. By order 
of Jas. Griffith, Brig. Gen. 1st Brig. 9th Div. 0. M. D. L. Wood, 
Brig. Maj. and Inspector. (verbatim) (1) 

2059 - H Sept. 4; ed:2/l - The force ordered en route for Texas is said 
to number 5,000 regulars, with more reinforcements of volunteers expected 
to fall in along the way. It is said, too, that General Taylor will 
increase this force if circumstances demand it. 

"This Texas business will prove a Florida war channel for Government 
revenues, beyond a question. The same reckless extravagance in expendi- 
ture marks the commencement of the campaign; troops are concentrated 
from the extremes of the Union at a heavy expense, on the strength of 
mere rumors of what the Mexicans will do, while the Texans themselves, 
who know something of the real Mexican character, and of their empty 
bluster, are 'calm as a summer morning' apparently, and take no more 
interest in the war than the Patagonians." (12) 

2060 - H Sept. 11; ed:2/l - The second battalion of the 5th reg., U.S. 
inf., is in the city enroute from Detroit and the Northwest to Texas 
and the Mexican scare. They will leave today in canal boats for Ports- 
mouth, thence through New Orleans to Corpus Christi. 

"What a wretched policy is pursued by the Administration in calling 
the handful of troops stationed on the extreme North Western frontier 
to the extreme South West, because weak and powerless Mexico chooses to 
play the blustering braggart. 

"Mexican threats of repossessing Texas have regularly appeared for 
years now, and each time have exploded as mere nothings. There is no 
use in concentrating our land and naval forces on the southern border 
when there has not been so much as a formal declaration of war. 

"Could not Southern and Texas volunteers be relied on?" (8) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion; Militia 

UNITED STATES NAVY 

2061 - H Jan. 18; ed:3/2 - An officer in the U.S. navy in the Mediter- 
ranean squadron states that the crew of the ship he is on has sent a 
petition to Congress, asking that the whisky portion of the ration be 
discontinued. It is believed that not only temperance and religion 
would increase then, but that the character and condition of seamen 
would be elevated. 

"We hope their petition on this subject may be heard and its prayer 
granted, and if others neglect it, we bespeak for it the special atten- 
tion of our immediate Representative." (9) 



373 

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2062 - 2036 

UNITED STATES NAVY (Cont'd) 

H July 9; ed:3/2 - See Coal 

2062 - H July 23; ed:2/2 - The U.S. iron steamer MICHIGAN, Commander 
Inman, arrived here from Sandusky yesterday with Commander Morris and 
Colonel Totten on board. The pair are on a tour of lake ports to as- 
certain the possibilities of the different harbors for naval depots. 

"President Polk could not have selected two more efficient officers 
for a mission of the kind, and their report respecting the defences of 
the inland seas will be looked for with deep interest by the residents 
of this region." (5) 

2063 - H Aug. 30:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "S" says: Many are 
not aware of the importance of our navy; they only look at the dollars 
it takes to support it. By the navy, our commerce is protected and 
our country known in distant lands, yet Locofocoism desires to abolish 
our naval force, as it has desired to do away with all other beneficial 
institutions. 

"How many years, after the destruction of our Navy, would it be be- 
fore the flags floating from the peak of a British vessel lying in the 
N. Y. Bay, would be transferred to Governor's Island and the Battery? 
The people will answer this by telling Locofocoism to let our gallant 
Navy alone." (5) 

2064 - H Nov. 5:3/1 - The New York EXPRESS reports that a letter from 

Washington City says: "The subject of establishing a Naval Depot for 

the No't'nern Lakes, is under advisement and consideration. It is 

thuught that Ohio City opposite to the City of Cleveland will be the 

site chosen." (verbatim) (1) 

UNITED STATES TERRITORIES &amp; POSSESSIONS 

2065 - H Aug. 25; ed:3/l - The last Iowa GAZETTE announces the election 
of Dodge as delegate to Congress from that Territory, and adds that the 
vote against the proposed State Constitution is so heavy that little doubt 
remains th?it it is lost, So Iowa will not come into the Union at the 
next session, and those new chairs in the Senate Chamber will remain 
vacant. (ver'Latim) (1) 

See also Annexation &amp; Expansion; Politics &amp; Government - United States 

UPHOLSTERING 

2066 - H July 1; adv: 1/2 - W. Wisdom. Upholsterer, Merwin-st., Cleveland, 
Ohio, Manufacturer of Curled Hair. The trade supplied with Curled Hair, 
Hair Cloth, Moss, Sofa Springs, etc. etc. (1) 



374

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2067 - 2072 

PLACEHOLDER

VEHICLES . . :. 

2067 - H Dec. 2; adv:3/3 - Notice - is hereby given that the co-partner- 
ship, heretofore existing between John F. Brown and Jason S. Harris, 
under the name and firm of Brown &amp; Harris, for the waggon-making busi- 
ness at Brooklyn, Cuyahoga co., Ohio, is hereby dissolved. Jason S. 
Harris, Brooklyn, Nov. 24, 1845. (I) 

WAR 

2068 - H July 26; ed:3/l,2 - Gentle peace has so long ruled among the 
mighty nations of the earth that war with its attendant horrors has 
measurably passed from the minds of the middle-aged and has not sullied 
the memories of the young. Still, every now and then some unreflecting 
persons clamor for war merely because of the excitement it arouses. 
Such persons should read the history of past military engagements, es- 
pecially the description of Marshal Macdonald's great charge against the 
Austrians at Wagram as narrated by Headley in the July number of the 
AMERICAN REVIEW. This stirring article fully depicts the terrible and 
bloody carnage at Wagram, when the brave Scot, Macdonald, cleared the 
center of the Austrian ranks and saved the day for Bonaparte, losing 
more than 15,000 of his entire troop of 16,000 warriors. He succeeded 
in forcing an Austrian retreat, but the cost was awful and the bar- 
barous slaying almost unbelievable. 

"Such was the awful battle of Wagram, and such the charge of Macdonald. 
We know of nothing equal to it except Ney's charge at Waterloo, and that 
was not equal, for it failed." (39) 

WATER SUPPLY 

2069 - H Apr. 24;2/4 - At the city council meeting on Apr. 22, a resolu- 
tion was adopted providing that a committee of three be appointed to con- 
struct a reservoir to contain 200 hhds. on the corner of Euclid and Erie 
sts., and that when completed the clerk draw an order on the treasury for 
$125 for that purpose. (1) 

2070 - H Nov. 21:2/3 - At the city council meeting on Nov. 17, it was 
resolved that the reservoir at the foot of Superior st. be repaired 
immediately. (1) 

WATERWAYS. See Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Rivers &amp; Harbors 

WEATHER 

2071 - H Feb. 1; ed:3/l - Today is the sharpest this winter, and in- 
dications now are that ice-houses can be stocked before the first of 
March. The mildness of the winter so far has been a matter of note 

in every portion of the United States. (1) 

2072 - H Feb. 5:3/1 - Snow Storm - A very blustering snow storm raged 
last night, and today has been the severest this winter. During the 
storm the wind swept through the city so fiercely from the Lake as to 
leave the streets nearly bare of snow, but in the country back from 

the Lake we presume the sleighing is good. We learn that the snow was 
about 8 inches deep at Chagrin Falls yesterday morning. (verbatim) (2) 



375

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2073 - 2080 

WEATHER (Cont'd) 

2073 - H Feb. 25; ed:3/l - What glorious weather! "February seems to 
have slid into April minus only April showers. Buds are swelling and 
spring birds twitter. Look out for nipping frosts however before dog 

days, according to the Almanac Makers." (1) 

H Mar. 18; ed:3/l - See Weather 

2074 - H Mar. 18; ed:3/l - Snow fell to the depth of a few inches this 
morning, March 18th, which, had the ground been frozen, would have fur- 
nished passable sleighing for this bare-ground climate. As it is, bells 

have been jingled quite merrily today. (verbatim) (1) 

2075 - H Mar. 20; ed:3/l - "The weather and face of the country, pre- 
sents the appearance of mid-winter. Sleighs with their accompanying 
bell-es are driving rapidly through our streets. While the clouds assume 
the cold bleak look that belongs to them in January. Our Lake is how- 
ever free of ice and the puff of Steamboats is heard as they arrive 

and depart." (1) 

2076 - H Mar. 24; ed:3/l - Our Cincinnati friends have just witnessed 
the embrace of January and May in March. The mild winter and early 
spring had put forward the peach and plum trees into full blossom and 
the green grass crowned the hills. "The cold in the Lake vicinity was 
pretty sharp, but fruit we think was sufficiently backward to escape 
serious injury. Peach buds we examined in the city this morning, were 
untouched by the frost." (3) 

2077 - H Mar. 29; ed:2/2 - "The weather about these days. The sun 'pours 
down his heating ray' with the fervor of June, and the roads are becoming 
dry and dusty. Spring showers would be very grateful to the young grass 
and starting blade." (1) 

2078 - H Apr. 7; ed:3/l • For some days past the weather has been cold 
and the nights freezing - sufficiently hard, we fear, to materially in- 
jure fruit in this section. But little rain has fallen for some weeks. 
Roads are dry and dusty, and grass and vegetation are much retarded by 

the cold drought. Quite a snow-storm is raging today. (1) 

2079 - H May 7:3/1 - The freeze on the night of May 5 was severe in the 
lake region. A friend from East Cleveland brought in several specimens 
of the sad work of the frost. Peaches, apples, cherries, grapes, and 
strawberries were destroyed. Fruit in this city is still promising. (3) 

2080 - H Miy 26:2/2 - In a letter to the editor, "Not the Oldest Inhabi- 
tant" says: The season of 1816 was noted for unfavorable weather due 

to icebergs and unusual phenomena. Many ships were lost in the ice 
fields, and were found much further south of their regular positions 
than usual. 



376

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2081 - 2087 

WEATHER (Cont'd) 

The weather was extremely dry and cold. There was much sickness and 
suffering both among men and animals; corn and grass crops were ruined 
everywhere. 

"But we have had warm weather and rains enough since that time, and 
we may well trusi a kind Providence to favor us in the same way here- 
after 

"With the strongest wish and hope that we may yet have a thaw during 
this summer, and water enough at least to wash our shirt-collars." (8) 

2081 - H July 21; ed:3/l - Our exchange from the eastern cities con- 
tinue to note many sudden deaths by sun strokes and imprudencies in 
drinking cold water when overheated. New York reports 23 in that 
city during the week. 

"Yesterday and today, July 20tu and 21st, have been excessively hot ^v 
days here; the hottest we think of the season. Last evening a refresh- 
ing shower passed over the city, but produced no abatement of heat. 
Mercury today, in the least exposed shade, stood at 90, and in the shade 
but slightly heated by reflection rose to 98." (5) 

2082 - li July 31; ed:3/l - A very welcome rain has at last fallen here- 
abouts, and the weather just now is delightfully cool and pleasant, 
(verbatim) (1) 

2083 - H Nov. 3:3/2 - The gale has been pretty stiff for the past 24 
hours, and a heavy sea running. A number of vessels have made our har- 
bor, which is now pretty well crowded with shipping. (verbatim) (1) 

2084 - H Nov. 14:2/1 - Snow. - Our city readers will be surprised to 
learn that Saturday, the 8th, a snow storm of considerable severity 
prevailed a few miles back from the lake. At Chardon snow fell to the 
depth of about six inclies, and at Medina eight inches! A pretty strong 
winter admonition for this climate. (verbatim) (1) 

2085 - H Nov. 21; ed:3/I - Our barometer predicted that at noon on Nov. 
18, a gale was near at hand, and true to the forecast, a gale did come 
that night, the same gale which capsized the schooner ELIZABETH WARD. 

"The importance of the barometer in anticipating the weather is be- 
coming more appreciated on the lakes, and many of the steam boats, 
propellers and best class of sail vessels are provided with them." (3) 

2086 - H Dec. 1; ed:3/l - Winter "comes in like a lion" - a good old 
fashioned north east snow storm, bells jingling, roads hard and rivers 
frozen. A pretty sharp introduction for the old white beard in this 
climate truly. (verbatim) (1) 

2087 - H Dec. 19; ed:3/l - The thermometer at Albany, it is reported, is 
down to 13 degrees below zero. 

Our mild weather closed last evening with a slight flurry of snow, 
followed by a clear sky and biting cold. At sunrise this morning the 
mercury was down to zero. (2) 



377

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2088 - 2093 

WEATHER (Cont'd) 

2088 - H Dec. 20:2/1 - So severe a snap has not occurred here before for 
some years. At dusk last evening, the mercury stood at 0, and from 5 

to 7 o'clock this morning it stood at 6 below zero. 

Ice in the Lake has formed rapidly during the last 48 hours, and now 
extends from our shores as far as the eye can reach. The harbor is closed 
to the mouth of the river. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Droughts 

WELFARE 

2089 - H Apr. 21:2/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Many Citizens" say: 
"We have been waiting anxiously for some demonstration by our citizens 
in favor of the Pittsburgh sufferers. The late severe and unprecedented 
disaster which has come upon that city demands immediate attention. 
The writer believes when their attention is appropriately called to it, 
that our Clevelanders are incapable of such neglect - that they will 

be ready promptly to afford substantial evidence that they sympathise 
with the suffering. 

"Allow the suggestion of a call for a public meeting this or to- 
morrow evening to adopt measures expressive of our commisseration, and 
such as will secure the object desired," (7) 

2090 - H Apr. 22:3/1 - In a letter to the editor, "Citizens" say: ' 
"The undersigned, sympathizing with the citizens of Pittsburgh in their 
unparalleled calamity, and believing that some public demonstration of 
feeling in behalf of that City is due from the citizens of Cleveland 
and that time and place is only needed by our citizens for that purpose, 
would ask you to give notice that a meeting will be held at the Court 
House, on Wednesday evening, Apr. 23 at 7 o'clock, to take measures 
for giving of our abundance to the suffering thousands in that City." 

(3) 

2091 - H Apr. 22; ed:3/l - "Our citizens will observe that a public 
meeting is called at the Court House to-morrow evening, to consider 
the subject of the recent calamity, and to take measures to contribute 
our share of aid to the sufferers. A general attendance is hoped for." 







(1) 



2092 - H Apr. 23; adv:2/4 - Apollo Hall, Wednesday evening April 23. 
Grand Concert for the Benefit and Relief of the Sufferers of the late 
fire at Pittsburgh. 

Christy's Minstrels. Songs, Refrains, Choruses and Etc. Front 
seats 50^. Back seats (a limited number) 25^. Doors open 7:30 P.M. 
Concert 8 P.M. (4) 

2093 - H Apr. 23; ed:3/l - Christy gives a Concert this evening for the 
benefit of the Pittsburgh sufferers. 

"Let it be a rich one." (verbatim) (1) 



378

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2094 - 2099 

WELFARE (Cont'd) 

2094 - H Apr. 24; ed:2/l - "The meeting in behalf of the sufferers by fire 
in Pittsburgh, convened at the Court House last evening, and organized by 
appointing Zalmon Fitch, Esq., Chairman, and Dudley Baldwin, Secretary. 

"On motion of S. J. Andrews, Esq., the meeting was adjourned to Satur- 
day evening next at half past 7 o'clock, that there might be a more 
general notice given." (1) 

2095 - H Apr. 30:2/2 - The meeting in behalf of the sufferers in Pitts- 
burgh convened at the court-house on Apr. 26, Z. Fitch, Esq., was in 
the chair. A committee of five persons in each ward was appointed to ^ 
solicit contributions to aid the Pittsburgh sufferers. The first ward 
committee is as follows: C. S. Butts, F. W. Bingham, C. W. Heard, 
Thomas Richmond, and C. Bradburn; second ward - A. Seymour, J. L. 
Weatherly, William Adair, W. A. Otis, and W. J. Warner; third ward - -&lt; ' 
Samuel Raymond, C. L. Camp, Wm. F. Allen, J. A. Wheeler, and Hughes. 

The committees will meet on May 1 at the American House to make 
necessary arrangements to carry out the object of the meeting. (6) 

2096 - H May 2:3/1 - Fire Fund - The donations acknowledged in the 
Pittsburgh papers are a little more than $50,000. Liberal contributions 

are still being made in the Eastern and Western cities. (verbatim) (1) 

See also Children; Fires &amp; Fire Prevention; Organizations - Welfare 

WELLS 

2097 - H Dec. 3; ed:3/2 - In Kentucky, artesian wells are being drilled 
to depths of from 60 to 400 feet, by means of an auger, fixed at the 

ends of rods and worked up and down by hand - a method much cheaper than 
excavation. 

"The subject is one of considerable importance, and we doubt not the 
plan might be advantageously adopted in many cities and villages as well 
as farms in the state." (43) 

WESTWARD MOVEMENT. See Annexation &amp; Expansion 

WHEAT. See Grain 

WHOLESALE TRADE 

2098 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - W. A. Otis &amp; Co., Wholesale Dealers in Iron, 
Nails, Steel, Spikes, and Glass; also. Groceries, Saleratus, Pot and 

Pearl Ashes, and Scorched Salts; third warehouse above canal bridge. (1) 

2099 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 • Forwarding Merchants &amp; Produce Dealers. 

A. Loomis &amp; Co., Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Groceries, Salt Fish, 

Whiskey, Foreign Liquors, Wines, Nails, Glass, &amp;c. No. 22 foot of 

St. Clair st., on the dock, and River st., Cleveland, Ohio. (I) 



379

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2100 - 2108 

WHOLESALE TRADE (Cont'd) 

2100 - H Jan. 3; adv:3/5 - Goods at Wholesale. (Dry goods. Groceries 
Boots &amp; Shoes) 

The above stock was purchased from first hands in New York and 
Boston and will be sold at New York Jobbing prices, adding freight 
only. W. W. Leland's, 12 Superior st. (2) 

2101 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Hilliard &amp; Hayes, Wholesale Dealers in Dry 
Goods, Groceries, &amp;c.. No. 1, 2 and 3, Exchange Buildings. (1) 

2102 - H Jan. 3; adv: 2/6 - To Country Merchants and Pedlars. N. P. 
Galpin's Wholesale Variety Store, One door west of Cutter's auction 
room. Where can be found the best assortment of Fancy Goods and Yankee 
Notions, &amp;c. Country Merchants, Pedlars and others are invited to call 
and examine the stock before purchasing elsewhere, as they can hardly 
fail of being pleased with articles and prices at Galpin's Wholesale 
Variety Store. (4) 

2103 - H Mar. 14; adv: 2/3 - As an acknowledgment of the faithful ser- 
vices rendered by Mr. Julius Roeder, and to meet the expectations of 
my friends and customers, I have from the 1st of January, 1845, given 

him an interest in my business. Fred'k Wm. Weiss. (verbatim) (1) 

2104 - n June 11; adv:2/5 - S. R. Hutchinson, is now offering for sale 
at the City Mills Store, foot of Division-st., a large and general 
assortment of dry goods, groceries, hardware, crockery, hats, boots, 
shoes and leather. His stock of goods is well selected, and admirably 
adapted to both city and country trade. (2) 

2105 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - W. A. Adair. Forwarding and Commission Mer- 
chants, 2nd warehouse above the canal bridge. (1) 

2106 - H Aug. 5; ed:3/l • The Great Fire. Our Western Merchants and 
others visiting New York, will see by a notice elsewhere that a very 
large number of good Houses in that city offer liberal inducements for 
their patronage. (verbatim) (1) 

2107 - H Sept. 26; adv: 2/5 - Wanted - 2,500 lbs. of Prime Live Geese 
Feathers. Theod: Faber. (1) 

Commission Houses 

2108 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 Jonas Stafford. Produce Forwarding, and Com- 
mission Merchant, on the dock and Merwin-st, warehouse formerly occupied 
by J. L. Weatherly &amp; Co., Cleveland, 0., connected with S. M. Fish &amp; Co., 
Albany and E. Fish &amp; Co., N. York. 

N. B. - Liberal advances made at all times on all kinds of Produce to 

be sold in this or other markets. (1) 



380

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2109 - 2121 

WHOLESALE TRADE - Commission Houses (Cont'd) 

2109 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/I - Hewitt &amp; Lyon, Produce Commission Merchants, 
Dealers in Produce, Salt, Fish, Plaster, Grain, &amp;c., second warehouse 
above R. Winslow &amp; Co. Advances made on property if desired. (1) 

2110 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - D. &amp; J. S. Griffith, Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, Dealers in Produce, &amp;c.. Office and warehouse between Merwin 
street and the river, adjoining the canal, Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

2111 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - J. Gillett, Commission Merchent and Forwarder. 
Dealer in Flour, Pork, Salt, Fish, Plaster, etc., near the Float Bridge. 

(1) 

2112 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - William R. Eckart, Commission Merchant, Red 
Warehouse on the dock, corner of Superior lane, Cleveland. (1) 

2113 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - T. N. Bond, Grocer and Commission Merchant, 

2d door above Canal Bridge, (1) 

2114 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - D. N. Barney &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commission 
merchants, Dealers in all kinds of Produce, Fish, Shingles, Cedar Posts, 
Staves, Lime &amp;c. Warehouse formerly occupied by Jesse Smith &amp; Co. 

D, N. Barney, E, G. Merrick, M. Merrick. (1) 

2115 • H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 • H. E. Butler &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, Dealers in Produce, Fish, Salt, &amp;c., Cleveland, Ohio. Offce 

on the river, foot of Light House st. (1) 

2116 • H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - B. F. Smith &amp; Co., Produce Forwarding and 
Commission Merchants, on the River, (1) 

2117 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - M. B. Scott, Forwarding and Commission Mer- 
chant. Dealer in Produce Fish, Salt and Staves, on the Dock. (1) 

2118 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Tho. Richmond &amp; Co., Produce Commission Mer- 
chants and Forwarders, on the river - connected with Kinne, Davis &amp; Co., 
Buffalo: Cowing, Richmond, Williams, &amp; Co., New York; and Gurdon 
Williams &amp; Co., Detroit - Cleveland, Ohio. (2) 

2119 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - J. G. Ranson &amp; Co., Forwarders and Produce 
Dealers, on the River. (1) 

2120 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 - Pease &amp; Allen, Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, and Dealers in Produce and Salt. (1) 

2121 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/1 • E. N. Parks &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, fourth warehouse from the Pier, on the dock. (l) 



381

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2122 - 2133 

WHOLESALE TRADE - Commission Houses (Cont'd) 

2122 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - S. R. Hutchinson, Produce Commission Merchants, 
on the wharf, first warehouse south of new bridge. (1) 

2123 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - Hubb}' &amp; Hughes, Forwarders and Commission 
Merchants, and Dealers in Produce, &amp;c; on the Dock. (1) 

2124 - H Jan. 3; adv:l/l - C. Hickox &amp; Co., Commission Merchants and 
Forwarders, Dealers in Produce, Fish, Plaster, &amp;c., - Ware-house recently 
occupied by Messrs. W. A. Otis &amp; Co. C, Hickox. J. F. Warner. (1) 

2125 • H Jan. 3; adv: 1/3 • Standart, Ingraham &amp; Co. Forwarding &amp; Commis- 
sion Merchants, Dealers in Salt, Fish, Plaster, Produce, etc., Cleveland 
Ohio. John F. West, General Agent in Ohio. Cash advances made on Prop- 
erty where required, (2) 

2126 - H Jan. 3; adv: 1/3 ■ Hewitt &amp; Lyon, Forwarding and Commission Mer- 
chants, Dealers in Salt, Fish, Plaster, Produce, etc., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Agents for American Trans. Co., Erie Canal; N. Y. &amp; Buffalo Lake Boat 
Line, Erie Canal. In connection with the Steam boats INDIANA, ILLI- 
NOIS. ST. LOUIS, JULIA PALMER, COLUMBUS, and Eagle Line of vessels 

on the Lakes. (4) 

2127 - H Jan. 3; adv: 2/4 - The undersigned have this day formed a co- 
partnership, under the firm of J. Stafford &amp; Co.. for the transaction of 
a general commission, Produce and Forwarding Business. 

Warehouse on the dock and Merwin-st. Cleveland, Ohio. Jonas Stafford, 
George W. Girty Cleveland, Jan. 1, 1845. (1) 

2128 - H Jan. 23; adv: 2/4 - Cash Advances made on all kind of Produce 
consigned to him for sale at home or in the New York market, by Theod: 
Faber. (verbatim) (1) 

2129 - H Jan. 27; adv: 1/1 - Theod: Faber Produce, Commission and For- 
warding Merchant, Warehouse on the dock, previously by Messrs. Hewitt 

and Lyon. (1) 

2130 ■ H Jan. 27; adv: 1/1 - Alex'r Seymour &amp; Co., Forwarding and Com- 
mission Merchants, Warehouse on the River, Cleveland, Ohio. Alex'r 
Seymour. H. E. Butler. (1) 

2131 • H July 1; adv:l/l - R. Winslow &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, on the River, Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

2132 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - Anson Smith Produce Commission Merchant, on 

the Wharf, second Warehouse, south of new bridge. (1) 

2133 - H July 1; adv: 1/4 - Forwarding &amp; Commission. The subscribers 
have this day formed a co-partnership for the transaction of a General 



382

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2134 - 2141 

WHOLESALE TRADE - Commission Houses (Cont'd) 

Forwarding and Commission Business, under the name and firm of Alex'r 

Seymour &amp; Co. Alex'r Seymour, H. E. Butler. Cleveland, Jan. 1, 1845. 

(1) 

2134 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - Thomas Richmond &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commis- 
sion Merchants, and dealers in all kinds of Produce, on the Dock, 16 Merwin 
st., Cleveland, Ohio. (1) 

2135 - H July 1; adv: 1/4 - B. N. Barney &amp; Co., Cleveland, 0. Forwarding 
and Commission Merchants. Dealers in Produce, Staves, Lumber, Salt, etc. 

Proprietors of steamers EMPIRE and CHESAPEAKE. 

Liberal cash advance made, with choice of markets, to owners of prop- 
erty. Agents for leading lines. (4) 

2136 - H July 1; adv: 1/1 - D. Morison &amp; Co., Commission Merchants, Patent 
rope Manufacturers, Dealers in Ship Chandlery, Groceries, Provisions, 
Fish, Salt, Tar, Pitch, Rosin, Nails, Glass, Paints, Oils &amp;c., on the 

dock, Cleveland. (1) 

2137 - H July 1; adv: 1/4 - Doddridge &amp; Coe, Forwarding and Commission 
Agents, yellow warehouse, third from pier, at Cleveland, 0. Dealers in 
fish, salt, lumber, &amp;c. Agents for Fulton and Erie Canal lines. Mer- 
chandize etc. forwarded from East with despatch to all places on the 

Ohio and Pennsylvania canals. (4) 

2138 - H July 14; adv:2/6 - F. French &amp; Co., Forwarding and Commission 
Merchants, 46 Merwin st., 24 on the dock, 3 doors south Canal Bridge. (1) 

WOMEN 

2139 - H Mar. 20; ed:2/2 - "The small remuneration which is paid a large 
class of females in our cities for excessive toil, is exciting the at- 
tention, we are glad to see, of the benevolent in all parts of the Union. 
Several meetings have been held in New York." (5) 

H July 22:3/2 - See Tariff 

2140 - H Nov. 13; ed:2/2 - The New York SUN, remarking on the beauty of 
American women, declares their pulchritude is in a large measure de- 
tracted from by the paleness of their features, amounting almost to an 
unhealthy pallor. This, adds the SUN is no doubt due to the lack of 
exercise among our women. 

We copy the SUN'S remarks because they are as pertinent in Cleveland 
as anywhere else. "There is no good reason, why ladies sufficiently 
clad, with stout double soled walking shoes, should not take regular and 
constant exercise in the open air in all weather." (10) 

2141 - H Dec. 13; ed:3/l - The Woman's bill has passed the senate of 
Georgia, securing to married women their own property. 

"Why is it, that in a country proverbial for its regard to the feel- 
ings of the gentler sex, such an utter disregard exists as to their 



383

CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER DIGEST JAN. 1 TO DEC. 31, 1845 

Abstracts 2142 - 2143 

WOMEN (Cont'd) 

rights. Will not Ohio lead the Northern States in enacting a law pro- 
tecting and preserving the property of women?" (5) 

WOMEN'S WEAR. See Clothing Trade 

WOOL 

2142 - H Mar. 20; ed:2/2 - The Akron BEACON says: We were shown the 
other day a sample of wool taken from a sheep belonging to the flock of 
Messrs. Perkins and Brown which is kept on the farm of Col. S. Perkins 
near this village. This wool was of surpassing fineness and beauty of 
texture. This specimen is probably among the best to be obtained from 
this flock, many of which are pure Saxon which have been subjected to 
a long course of careful breeding. 

Some of the best wool of this flock was marketed in Lowell, Mass., 
at 90 cents per pound. An average price of 68 cents was received on the 
whole lot. 

Those who are desirous of improving their flock should purchase their 
breeding stock from Perkins and Brown. 

"The above affords an item which our farming readers should read with 
attention to their own interests. 

"The expense or trouble of keeping a breed of sheep that will produce 
fine wool, ready marketable at a high price, is no greater than that of 
an inferior breed." (6) 

H July 1; adv:l/2 - See Hides &amp; Skins 

2143 - H Sept. 8; ed:3/l - Wool is fast becoming a very important staple 
of Ohio. In Licking county alone, 238,263 pounds of wool have been 
cleared this year to Sept. 1, the average price received being 26 cents 
per pound. 

"And yet Locofocoism would repeal the Tariff, crush the manufacturers, 
and destroy a source of profit to Western farmers that is second only to 
Wheat growing, and at the ratio it is increasing under the protective 
policy, bids fair soon to take the lead." (3) 

#START_CHRON

385 

CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 
H Jan. 3 163 187 188 206-208 220 221 242 250 251 256 325 335 

393-395 482 509-513 520-529 653 663-665 687-691 695 
715-719 726-732 750 755 816 840-843 857 864 865 909-912 
957 980 1026 1027 1048 1049 1113 1132 1133 1200 1215 
■"'"'^ - 1267 1645 1646 1672-1679 1709 1717 1742 1809-1815 1907 
2052 2053 2089-2102 2108-2127 

4 1480 1970 

6 222 248 319 336 643 817 987 988 1481 1557 1718 1816 1912 

7 989 1219 1472 1971 

8 1972 2055 

9 252 582 617 990 1013 

10 117 693 

11 118-121 408 941 1223 1558 

13 39 

14 122 123 1224 1719 1720 

15 14 40 461 462 654 

16 553 G18 771 

:...&lt;:' H.-t I :&gt;Ci' ■ :.■ ; 

17 124 1134 1268 

■■. ■ «■-■&gt;! i': 

18 125 280 554 1225 1668 1817 2061 

20 126 

21 1249 1482 1483 1721 1722 1743 

22 1135 1744 

23 127 165 253 530 675 866 880 935 11114 1226 1484 1680 2128 
25 128 331 818 1115 1269 1473 1669 

27 337 591 1913 1927 2129 2130 

28 555 619 867 942 1647 1723 1801 

29 514 844 1485 1486 1681 1877 1973 



386 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Jan. 30 41 819 1487 1791 

31 42 209 223 562 961 1220 1724 

Feb. 1 24 224 225 338 666 820 943 1432 1682 1745 1878 2071 

3 129 130 309 1725-1727 

4 43 44 131 620 702 1261 1270 

5 1746 2072 

6 310 592 621 655 1271 

7 383 409 593 944 945 1951 1974 

10 622 656 1433 1915 1952 

11 1227 1434 

12 882 

13 1531 1728 

14 883 991 1272 1747 

15 459 884 1802 

17 15 772 835 1456 1488 1532 1729 1775 

18 594 1012 

19 132 885 992 993 1136 1908 

20 451 773 805 886 994 1454 

21 264 887 888 962 995 1273 1648 

22 452 889 1274 1560 

24 24 133 1137 1275 1649 

25 410 890 913 1792 1963 2073 

26 1276 1277 1327 1489 1533 

27 963 993 997 

28 134 196 644 891 1210 1328 1331 1554 1916 1917 1928 



387 

CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Mar. 1 453 1278 1332 1333 1818 

3 320 454 645 877 1367 1561 1730 1748 1749 1918 

4 46 135 247 1334 1490 1650 -,, ^ ,j- ,; 

5 248 311 ;; :, , ■, : , , v , ; 

6 105 197 321 836 878 1534 1794 . j; ;.. -^i ,,, 

7 47 372 1279 -rj :;-;; ...•;,: ,-; j^;;, ,,&lt; . .; 

8 936 -'^- -■■■■' •&gt;-- - •• ._. , : 

10 106 623 646 800 1710 1819 1929 

11 16 411 412 1050 1228 1455 1491 1492 1562 1731 1732 1803 
1879 

12 413-415 624 801 964 1067 1820 1919 1976 

13 965 1068 1457 ....^i ,;[; ; 

14 579 2103 ^i!l .,&gt;,-..; ^;,^i i - . ;. ;■ r^ 

15 1280 1429 1733 . : ... ,,; , 

17 312 1229 1458 1474 1750 ;- . . ,; ,, , 

18 2074 -•.-; ..u.{ :..:: \i : ,.■, ■„ ■ ■; :• 

19 226 1520 1804 ,,;-;-i , _? 

20 227 563 647 774 2075 2139 2142 ; ,&gt; ^ ;•..; 

21 1281 1734 ;;. x,&lt; ^^ .f 

22 313 1821 ijO- .,:)&gt;,r v;:j, ,; ,; ,v. .-■., :.■ 

24 753 2076 ' ' :,:.: , •;:: - ,,; ,::.:3 .^ ^ ■ ;; 

25 228 757 966 967 1138 .^C-.-ii^i • ■.; " U" - &gt;:• 

26 83 98 376 531 802 1735 1751 oj i;;y ^.,::.. :^^: ,,;, 

27 229 . - ;'&lt;,i.-.MC.'.::;. -i . . •■!: 

28 107 775 1493 1752 1822 . :•. ■•&lt;:. ca &gt;';„ 

29 595 1736 2077 



388 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Mar. 31 48 230 231 322 1494 1823 - ■' • ' 

Apr. 1 49 596 968 1230 1778 ■ - - -■'■ •■• ^ ^ 

2 108 314 1711 1824 1930 • • ■• ~ 

3 821 822 855 1282 1737 •'■ • "-'■■■ 

4 495 1335 1336 , . ■ 

5 192 803 1231 1283 1284 1337 1338 1459 

7 463 1221 1521 1738 1739 1753 2078 

8 75 203 339 625 733 806 807 1139 1211 1285 1339 
•■ 9 362 1740 1754 

10 50 109 204 315 676 879 914 978 1140-1143 1495 1547 1563 
1920-1922 1931 

11 1144 1250 

12 1145 1286 1287 1368 1369 1415 

14 626 627 1977 

15 10 628 892 1564 ' ■ 

16 416 417 532 629 915 1522 1523 1805 

17 1 630 

18 257 340 464 1051 1069 

19 533 1120 1146 

21 356 584 580 1262 1806 2089 

22 534 565 584 1535 1825 2090 2091 ■ . ■ 

23 585 720 1565 2092 2093 

24 657 823 952 960 1712 1755 2069 2094 

25 2 110 198 316 323 631 1288 

26 99 515 893 1566 1826 1827 ■ - - " : ':. 

29 84 597 1567 ... . &gt;- ...... '^^ 



389 
"' CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Apr. 30 465 858 859 1741 2095 

May 1 658 

2 136 1147 2096 

3 1416 2054 

5 674 1028 1029 1121 1148 1953 

6 1568 1569 1954 

7 632 934 1570 2079 

8 377 598 1683 1955 

9 418 1289 1978 •' 
10 776 1828 

12 216 535 633 '" ' '" 

13 232 504 777 1496-1498 1571 1807 2042 '' 

14 1572 

15 1149 '-'''' ■''■ "'^^ 

16 1232 ■'' '■ '" 

17 265 4G6 1829 '■ ' ' ^"' 

19 137 1116 ^ " ' "• 

20 28 111 536 599 969 1070 1651 1684 2043 • ' -''^ 

21 341 1205 1573 2044 ' *' 

22 166 302 1071 1290 ■'-"'■' "='■■ '' -"' '*' 

23 303 1574 

24 566 778 1150 1756 * ''" ' * '■ ' ' 

26 1757 1979 2080 ''■^' 

27 419 1151 1575 2045 '■'• ' '' '" •^■* 

28 779 1558 -■^••" *^ 



39G 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 
H May 29 1052 1536 1830 1902 



30 85 304 808 824 

June 2 3 998 1072 1576 1831 2046 

3 29 537 600 703 746 1073 1074 1524 1548 

5 51 1075 1208 

6 420 601 1014 1291 

7 421 1076 1292 1577 . . 
9 138 422 602 1077 1078 1832 1924 1980 

10 266 399 780 1079 1537 

11 305 804 916 1080 2104 

12 306 677 1081 1152 1758 

13 678 1578 1981- . ;,; . ■. 

14 679 1251 1914 

16 423 467 704 

17 1252 1435 

18 116 1233 

19 1234 

20 781 1579 • 

21 100 101 1436 1580 

23 603 680 947 1082 1759 

24 782 

25 1340 1833 1936 

26 4 505 671 937 

27 1293 1499 

28 373 659 1538 



391 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 
H June 30 288 783 1083 

July 1 25 102 139 167-171 195 199 254 255 263 295 342-350 384 

424 455 483 484 496 503 516-519 533-546 604 650 660 661 
667 668 681 682 692 696 705 711 712 721-724 734 751 758 
784 815-851 868-870 917 938 948 958 981 1030 1031 1053 
1117 1118 1153 1201-1203 1216 1235 1253 1341 1500 1549 
1652-1654 1685-1690 1760 1796-1798 1834-1836 1909 1910 
1982 2066 2105 2131-2137 

2 96 140 172 173 243 605 735 759 982 1154 1217 1501 1525 
1655 1656 1691 1785 1880 1983 1984 

3 112 174-176 210 317 385 396 456 559 567 568 606 736 
760-764 814 852 853 939 1155 1263 1342 1475 1657 1658 
1692 1837 1881 1932 1956 2057 

5 103 177-179 468 765 1581 1659 1670 1693 1838 1839 

6 1840 

7 141-143 351 1054 1550 

8 144 457 970 1156 1694 1841 1941 

9 233 357 560 586 651 815 1460 1582 

10 30 258 469 501 706 1157 1437 1842 1985 

12 17 80 753 894 1032 1084 1158 1761 1762 1843 1940 1964 

14 5 358 386 425 470 940 949 950 1660 1661 1695 1844 1937 
1986 2138 , I 

16 193 211 368 42b 648 1294 1526 1527 ■ (,c, ..^i 

17 471-473 839 953 1085 1539 1845 ,t, j-,r. .-:• i\ 
,18 ... 52 200 307 359 400 1159 1236 1295 1540 1987 v, 

19 506 569 895 1055 1086 1502 1696 .-(.; iri. r-,.; 

:. 21 . 53 54 180 556 785 951 1528 2081 , .,;; 

22 387 427 474 570 652 1503 1583 1763 1764 1942 

23 212 363 428 634 786 959 1584 1938 2062 .y'l 

24 55 201 213 401 571 837 1222 1846 2047 . -; 



392 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX • 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H July 25 6 402 403 429 737 928 1033 1160 1257 1585 1713 

26 239 259 896 971 976 1034 1161 1882 1905 2048 2068 

28 308 374 404 649 788 897 1162 1765 2056 

29 234 789 1023 1035 1883 2049 

30 1056 1504 158G 

31 31 238 1343 1551 1587 18^7 2050 2082 
Aug. 1 181 741 825 898 929 1296 1505 1588 1884 

2 145 607 697 838 977 1087 1163 1164 1848 1849 1885 2051 

4 194 1589 1850 1965 

5 487 672 1254 1370 1541 2106 

6 146 217 749 1089 1165 

7 32 147 267 475 742 918-920 1344 1430 

8 488 581 673 743 790 79i 899 1090 1091 1542 1590 1886 

9 268 296 707 1057 1092 1297 1506 1662 2058 

11 97 430 489 490 876 1255 1417 1887 

12 56 289 378 608 1204 1345 1507 1591 

13 7 826 1851 

14 148 364 431 1093 1166-1168 1371 1543 

15 235 432 497 635 827 1169 1372 1418 1714 1766 

16 11 491 698 823 1170 1171 1419 1508 1592 1795 1852 1853 

18 365 492 744 954 1346 1420 1854 

19 8 57 366 493 507 809 860 1094 1172 1218 1347 1786 1888 
19g6 1988 

20 260 290 291 367 379 900 1095 1173 1238 1298 1348 1421 
1767 

21 58 269 433 460 1349 1779 



393 



H 


Aug. 

Sept 


22 
23 
25 
26 
27 
28 

29 

30 

;. 1 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 
561 792 793 1889 

59 149 150 380 1174 1239 1299 1350 1890 1925 1989 1990 
708 1175 1467 1891 1892 2065 

60 397 1351 1352 1373 1552 1593 1893 1901 ,i,. 

236 434 979 1024 1374 1556 1594 1991 1992 , • 

18 151 240 281 609 669 1018 1353 1553 1595-1597 1855 
1894 1993 1994 

J'. 

61 270 1300 1461 1856 1895 

62 63 271 272 494 610 745 2063 

33 34 64 65 86 87 498 588 611 829 1015 1375-1377 1697 
1996 

2 88 152 218 388 694 794 795 810 1378 1379 1422 1462 1943 
1997-1999 

3 89 405 435-438 499 683 901 902 1380 1381 1933 1944 

4 90 1382 1468 1529 1598 2000 2001 2059 

5 66 91 796 811 830 921 1176 1301 1354 1383 1896 1945 

6 19. 67 153 389 

8 439 1025 1355 1356 1384 1423 1544 1857 1926 2143 

9 68 c87 797 1058 1264 1357 1358 1509 1599-1601 1663 2002 

10 26 154 1059 1119 1359 1360 

11 1424 2003 2060 

.11 

12 69 406 856 972 1177 1302 1361 1385 1438 1463 

13 155 922 1303 1386 1897 2004-2007 

15 104 612 1178 1179 1387 1388 

16 156 273 903 1180 1389 1390 1425 1858 1859 1957 2008 

17 92 476 613 923 1060 1096 

18 190 205 725 924 1097 1510 1530 1698 1699 



394 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX • 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Sept. 19 35 352 737 752 861 1181 1391 1602 1700 1860 1898 

20 70 547 881 973 1098 1392 1861 1939 

22 440 746 983 1099 1304 1439 2009 2010 0: 

23 214 589 930 1100 1240 1911 2011 

24 12 369 441 999 1101 1393 1394 1440 1603 2012 

25 9 157 182 215 282 353 572 1122 1664 1701 2013 

26 71 548 713 871 1665 1702 2107 

27 285 297 442 573-576 1241 1305 1476 1604 

29 636 1441 1703 

30 113 360 477 577 831 1020 1256 1362 1395 1605-1607 1906 
1934 1958 1959 

Oct. 1 549 550 578 738 1862 

2 354 812 1061 1363 1608 

3 72 904 1016 1364 1442 1545 1609 1704 

4 158 274 275 398 1000 1102 1103 1257 

6 93 183 261 292 1062 1104-1107 1206 1396 1477 1610 1768 
2014 

7 202 276 1108 1365 1397 1426 1780 

8 189 747 1001 1002 1109 1110 1511 1666 2015 

9 277 1182 1946 2016 

10 390 637 1306 1611 

11 590 1007 1111 1512 1947 

13 237 485 739 1398-1400 1443 1781 

14 1063 1307 1612 1613 1899 

16 478 479 974 1376 1401 1444 1614 1667 1863 2017 2018 

17 832 1258 1308 1615 1799 



395 

"■-' CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Oct. 18 699 1209 1800 1935 2019 ...r 

20 ' 443 1402 1616 1769 1770 2020 

rrr^i'-:: ^444 looa 1021 ii83 1445 1715 1771 

22 244 381 700 1022 1431 2021 2022 ■■ ' ■ " " 

23 245 286 1772 1864 1876 2023-2026 ".'"' 

24 20 184 287 1123 1124 1242 1309 1403 1446 1903 :. 

25 551 1184 1243 1404 1617 2027 '■ 

27 854 1185 1186 1960 : ' ■'' '■ : 

28 382 1125 1187 

29 1188 1189 1310 1447 ■ ■.: 

30 1036 1311 1448 2028 /. i ■ ' .. 

31 219 375 480 M12 1449 1618 1865 2029 

Nov. 1 21 614 1064 1126 1127 1190 1405 1619-1621 1705 1773 

3 185 191 355 370 445 955 1312 1406 1622 1900 1967 2083 

4 670 709 1004 1005 1244 1623 1624 1866 1968 

5 298 552 925 1128 1191 1625 1867 2064 •: ri 

7 95 558 863 905 1017 1513 1626-1629 1868 •■.-. 

8 710 714 906 1192 1313 1630 ■ : - : ' '.i 

10 1039 1631 1632 1787 ^i ; • . ' ; 

11 73 299 638 766 1633 

12 81 486 639 1265 1634 1635 1706 1774 1775 1788 2030 

13 300 748 1040 1065 2140 

14 301 1008 1407 1636 1707 2084 "'.' V' ^. i- .'i '.' 

15 74 1427 1478 1637 1789 :.'::': iT-: r; 
17 1546 1776 1808 1948 ' -.: ? ' 



396 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 



ABSTRACT NUMBERS 

H Nov. 18 241 391 684 1245 

19 164 392 458 685 767 875 1041 1193 1314 1450 1708 2031 

21 13 114 318 446 615 640 984 1129 1428 1479 1782 2070 2085 

22 27 36 1408 1638 

24 1315 

25 37 82 371 447 1207 

26 159 249 1259 1316 1409 1464 

27 1042 2032 

28 407 557 862 956 1037 1317 1318 1869 1923 2033 

29 1043 1130 1194 1212-1214 1319 1639 1777 
Dec. 1 1410 1451 2086 

2 502 701 833 985 1044 1246 1969 2067 

3 186 583 1452 1640 1870 2034 2097 
■ 4 1641 

5 115 324 662 686 798 799 907 1266 1320 2035 

6 278 448 1009 1195 

8 22 76 1514 1642 1871 

10 160 1247 1783 1872 

11 77 754 1196 1197 1465 2036 2037 

12 279 908 1006 1873 1949 1950 

13 449 2141 

15 1010 1466 

16 1045 1515 1516 

17 78 740 926 927 986 1643 1961 

18 283 450 813 932 1131 1453 1469 1517 1904 



397 
CHROiNOLOGICAL INDEX - 1845 

ABSTRACT NUMBERS 
H Dec. 19 38 94 392 508 834 1019 1470 2087 

20 293 500 1011 1066 1321 1322 1716 1790 1793 1962 2038 

2039 2088 

22 1046 2040 

23 79 161 641 1411 1644 

24 284 768 769 1198 1323 1324 1671 
27 162 616 975 1038 2041 

29 23 642 1874 

33 294 481 872 873 1047 1248 1412-1414 1875 

31 262 770 931 933 1199 1260 1325 1471 1518 1519 1784 

#START_TERMS

399 

INDEX 1845

### * Denotes subject heading 
### or subject reference 

Abbey, Perley, 998 

Abbey, Seth A., 1339 2022 

*Abolition. See Slavery 

Academy, 1327 

Academy of Natural Science, 82 1207 

*Accidents &amp; Disasters, 1-13 

"Accordeon, The" .(poem), 1300 

Ackley. See Hewitt and Ackley 

Ackley, Horace A., 491 1000 1008 1009 

Ackley, John A., 1721 

Adair, ff. A., 1322 1331 1873 2095 2105 

Adams and Hoyt, 833 981 

Adams, B. E. W., 984 

Adams, Green, 1419 • ' 

Adams, John Quincy, 1034 1259 *•'"•-'! 

Adams, L. L., 1389 

ADAMS' NEW ARITHMETIC (book), 1780 

Addison, H. M., 684 

"Address of the Carriers of the Cleveland HERALD" (poem), 1267 

Aetna Insurance co., 620 

*Agriculture, 14-23 

Aiken, S. C., 177 962 966 1127 1129 1130 1977 1978 

AIKENS" BRITISH POETS (book), 443 

Aikin, J. J., 961 

Akron BEACON (newspaper), 227 231 2142 

Akron, Ohio, 229 424 1393 1582 1589 1627 1982 

Alabama, 554 557 1794 - 

Albany ARGUS (newspaper), 235 

Albany county, N. Y., 707 

Albany EVENING JOURNAL (newspaper), 1178 

Albany, N. Y., 10 737 1118 1178 1964 1965 2087 2108 

Albion, Ohio, 1719 

*Alcoholic Liquors, 24-27 

Alden (H. W.) and Company, 520 

Alexander and Company, 422 

Alexander, De Zavala, 1266 

Alexandria, D. C, 696 

Alger, Mrs. M. J., 298 

ALGOMAH (ship), 1854 

ALGONQUIN (ship), 192 

Allegheny college, 361 

"Allegory, An" (poem), 1320 

Allen. See Pease and Allen 

Allen, C. C, 1148 

Allen, G. C, 867

Allen, Iram, 989 1003 

Allen, J. F., 1737 

Allen, J. W., 803 1180 1597 1624 1754 

Allen, John W., 77 1411 1566 1585 1613 1631 1717 

Allen, Stephen, 1476 

Allen, William F., 654 2095 



400 

INDEX 1845 

Ailing, E., 936 

Alpin. See Gorham, Alpin and Smith 

AMERICAN FARMER, THE (periodical), 1239 

American House, 327 389 458 549 564 720 728 740 857 865 947 1094 1552 

2095 
AMERICAN POULTERERS' COMPANION (book), 169 ^ 

AMERICAN REVIEW (periodical), 1228 1233 1241 1245 2068 
American Society for the Abolition of the Death Penalty, 241 
*Amusements. See Entertainment 
Anderson, Charlotte, 495 
Anderson, David, 495 
Andover, Ohio, 971 
Andrews, B., 1523 
Andrews, E. W., 1331 
Andrews, Foot, and Hoyt, 1654 
Andrews, Nathaniel, 476 
Andrews, Sherlock J., 140 1207 1450 2094 
•Animals, 28 

•Annexation &amp; Expansion, 29-74 
•Anniversaries, 75-79 
Ann Steven's Land, 1663 
•Antiques &amp; Curios, 80-82 
*Anti -slavery. See Slavery 
Apollo hall, 295 296 563 564 567 569-571 574 578 584-586 882 883 892 

1051 1052 1060 1064 1067 1068 1072-1080 1082 1088 1097 1107-1111 

2042-2049 2092 
Arey, Oliver, 1761 1784 
Argentine, 670 
Armstrong, William, 1958 
Armstrong, W., 1062 
ARRAH NEIL (book), 168 
•Art &amp; Artists, 83-94 
Ashbrook's Rectified whiskey, 24 
Ashland, Ohio, 1637 1638 1641 1642 
Ashtabula county, Ohio, 1149 1630 
Ashtabula SENTINEL (newspaper), 803 
•Asia, 95 

•Assaults. See Crime &amp; Criminals 
Astor, John Jacob, 238 
•Astronomy, 96 97 
Aten, Charles M,, 1557 
Atkins, Bertha, 961 
Atkins, Q. F., 961 
Atwater, George M., 1603 
•Auctions &amp; Auctioneers, 98-104 
Aughinbaugh, John, 455 
AURORA BOREALIS (ship), 1866 

Austin, Samuel, 1663 : ; ■ ' ' 

Austinburgh, Ohio, 965 • • ■ 

"Autumn" (poem), 1313 •;,',..,■ 

"Autumn Leaf, The" (poem), 1312 



401 
INDEX 1845 

*Awards &amp; Claims, 105-115 
Awl, William M., 1012 

Babcock. See Fleming and Babcock 

Babcock. B. H., 1875 

Babcock and Wood, 1875 

Backus. See Bishop and Backus 

Backus, Frank T., 81 910 1377 1380 

Bacon, J. C, 277 

Bailhache, J., 1175 

Bailey. See Crangle, Bailey, and Company 

Bailey and Company, 717 

Bailey, J. M., 312 

Bailey, L., 1956 

Bailey, R., 599 

Bailey, Roy T., 717 

Bailey, W., 482 485 

•Bakeries &amp; Bakers, 116 

Baker, S. L., 819 

Baldwin, D. , 141 531 1958 2094 

Baldwin, Norman C, 1211 1212 1214 

Baldwin, William H., 1958 •^^- - 

Baldwin and Spangler, 535 537 551 

Ballou. See Leland and Ballou 

Ballou, L. M., 1066 

Ballou, L. v., 1043 

Baltimore AMERICAN (newspaper), 44 856 1882 

Baltimore, Md., 241 554 664-666 1509 1510 1543 1597 1616 1963 2024 

Baltimore and Ohio railroad, 1589 1598 1616 

Baltimore PATRIOT (newspaper), 553 

Bancroft, George, 1492 

Bank of Cleveland, 125 454 945 1026 

Bank of St. Clair, 1029 

Bank st., 1 217 408 520 628 762 763 806 807 1555 1681 1926 1929 

Bank of Wooster, 1032 1467 

*Banks &amp; Banking, 117-162 

BAPTISM OF JESUS CHRIST (painting), 87 

Baptist church, 88-91 889 890 894 908 993 995 996 1127 1995 2016 2018 

2024 2030 2032 
Barber and Girty, 739 
•Barbers, 163 
Barber, William B., 751 
Barler and Lord, 1646 
Barn Burners. See Democratic party 
Barnard, Peter, 1939 
Barnel, Phillip, 437 
Barnett, A. J., 607 
Barnett, James, 600 609 758 

Barnett, Melancton, 1330 1361 1385 1386 1389 1754 
Barney (B. N.) and Company, 2135 
Barney, D. N., 2114 



402 

INDEX 1845 

Barney (D. N.) and Company, 3 1810 1827 2114 

Barns, J,, 1175 

Barnum, G. T., 1450 

Barr, John, 754 1248 1658 

Barry, Ohio, 1537 

Bartiett and Clark, 543 

Bartlett, J. B., 1392 

Bartiett, N., 921 

Bartlett, Nicholas, 1780 

Bartley, Mordecai, 410 2041 

Bartley, Thomas W., 152 158 1459 1468 

Barton, Samuel H., 5 

Bassett, Nathan, 461 

Batch, Jacob, 367 

Bateham, M. B., 743 745 

Bates, Lucy Ann, P03 

Bates, Timothy, 1461 

Bath St., 644 645 878 1912 1913 1915-1917 1919 1935 2057 

Baxter, P., 1177 

Bayard, George A., 464 

Bazaar, 1117 

Beattie, W. D. , 1207 1766 1774 1788 

Beaver creek, 1640 

Beaver, Pa., 220 232 

Beckwith (W. and S.) and Company, 347 354 550 871 949 

Bedford county, Tenn., 1418 

Bedford, Ohio, 618 809 855 1537 1640 1727 2023 

Beebe, Huron, 98 100-102 1387 1936 

Beebe, R., 1441 

Beecher, Catherine, 171 177 

Beecher, E., 2031 

Beekman, Thomas, 10 

Beers, B. P., 937 

Bell, William C, 1229 

Bellini, Giovanni, 1059 

Belvidere, N. J., 240 

Bement, C. M., 169 

Bemis, E. S., 599 1330 

Benedict, George A., 81 780 841 919 920 1047 1389 1397 

Benedict and Hitchcock, 841 920 

Benedict, John, 1021 

Benedict, Karl, 1322 

Benser, Michael, 438 

Bently, Rennsslaer, 1790 

Benton, II., 559 

Benton, Ohio, 1640 

Benton, Thomas H., 46 1180 1480 

Berea, Ohio, 1537 1623 

Berkley, Mass., 1885 

Berkshire Agricultural society, 20 



403 
INDEX 1845 

Berlin, Conn., 476 

Berlin, Ohio, 277 

Berlin, Prussia, 814 

Berrien, John M., 1429 

Bethel Chapel, 1670 1972 1978 1988 2009 

Bethel Reading room, 933 

Bethel school, 1782 

Bigler, John, 1520 

Bingham. See Kingsbury and Bingham 

Bingham, Caroline Elizabeth, 971 

Bingham, Cyrus, 971 

Bingham, E., 922 

Bingham (E.) and Company, 663 718 

Bingham, Elijah, 1662 

Bingham, F. W., 312 313 452 488 495 1041 1334 1392 1607 2095 

Bingham, S. L., 78 79 765 1060 1061 1064 1364 

Bingham's Singing academy, 295 1050-1052 1060 

Bingham fW.) and Company, 728 733 740 1700 

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIRS OF THE REV. GEORGE BEECHER (book), 177 

Birney, J. G., 1258 1896 

Bishop. See Blair and Bishop 

Bishop and Backus, 497 498 500 910 

Bishop, Jesse P., 910 1333 

Bishop, L. H., 823 

Bissell, Benjamin, 413-415 451-454 805 

Black River and Sullivan Plank Road co., 1730 

Black Rock Mills, N. Y., 705 

Blackmer, Edward H., 365 

Blackmer, R. H., 1331 

Blackwell, Benjamin T., 1336 

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, 1226 

Blair, Henry, 1331 

Blair, John, 792 823 

Blair and Rives, 1146 1158 

Blair and Bishop, 823 

Blakeslee, C. T., 1357 1384 1389 2023 

Blanchard, Henrietta, 428 

Bliss, Leir, 456 

Bliss, Obadiah, 1357 

Bliss, Stoughton, 431 1334 1339 1392 

Blossom, Orris, 472 

"Blue Beard" (song), 1092 

BLUE BELL (ship), 1819 

Boardman and Gray, 1118 

Bodine, Polly, 416 426 447 

BOHEMIAN GIRL (opera), 1087 

Bolton and Kelley, 1646 

Bolton, Thomas, 1565 

Bonaparte, Napoleon, 2068 

Bond and Company, 832 

Bond, D. E., 832 



404 

INDEX 1845 

Bond, M. P., 832 

Bond St., 94 293 

Bond, T. N., 81 972 1682 2113 

Bond (T. N. and Company, 617 984 986 

*Books &amp; Authors, 165-186 •..".. 

*Bookstores and Stationers, 187-191 

Boone, Daniel, 1024 

Serges. See Denker and Borges 

Boston ATLAS 'newspaper), 835 

Boston JOURNAL (newspap r), 14C9 

Boston, Mass., 445 543 585 643 710 1115 1147 1850 1864 1896 1948 1965 

1989 2100 
Boston museum, 2048 
Boston POST (newspaper), 1477 
Bourgoin, Joseph, 875 
Bowen, Hiram, 1 93 

Bowman, H., 1144 --'"■■■' 

Boyd, Linn, 1419 
Boyden, Eveline Melissa, 481 
Boyden, John, 481 

Bradburn, Charles, 122 1330 1375 1751 1752 1755 1779 1782 2095 
Bradburn (C.) and Company, 719 1751 
Brainard, Asahel, 1249 
Brainard, G. W., 1048 

Brainard, S., 564 567 943 1048 1059 1065 1067 1115 1691 
Branson, Thomas, 1681 
Brantsford, Canada, 1737 
*Brass &amp; Copper, 192-194 
Brayton, Charles D., 451 
Brayton and Company, 545 1204 
Brayton, Egerton, and Watrous, 1828 
Brayton, H. F., 780 849 
Brayton (11. F) and Company, 1027 1704 
Bradley, H. S., 270 
Brecksville, Ohio, 290 1537 1980 
Bremer, Fredericka, 1260 ; ■' ; 

*Breweries &amp; Distilleries, 195 
*Bridges, 196-202 
Briggs, George N., 39 1427 

Briggs, James A., 4rJ4 1477 1624 1660 1731 1959 2023 
Briggs, Margaretta Baden, 464 

Brighton, Ohio, 805 1882 1938 ■ : 

Brinkerhoff, Jacob, 42 
Bristol, Ira, 1335 1740 

Broad st., 1836 ; 

Brockenbrough, W. H., 1431 
BROKEN MERCHANT (play', 2050 2051 
Brooklyn Centre academy, 1775 

Brooklyn, N. Y., 972 ^ 

Brooklyn, Ohio, 481 968 1366 1528 1537 1971 2067 
Brooks. See Huntington and Brooks ; 



405 

INDEX 1845 

Brooks, Hiram, 746 

Brooks, Joseph J., 1585 1784 

Brooks, 0. A., 1685 

BROTHERS, OR THE FALLEN SAVED, THE (play), 2049 

Brough, C. H., 1180 1494 

Brough, John, 153 

Brown. See Williamson and Brown 

Brown, Aaron V., 1421 1478 

Brown, Abner H., 1003 

Brown, Mrs. H. F. M., 298 

Brown and Harris, 2067 

Brown, J. W., 1001 1003 

Brown, James A., 1357 *"'' ' 

Brown, James M., 1721 

Brown, John F., 2067 

Brown, John M., 998 

Brown, Thomas, 926 

Bruce, A. W., 298 

Bruce and company, 1151 

Brunswick, Ohio, 746 

Bryant, William Cullen, 672 1165 1192 ' ' 

Buchan's Hungarian Balsam of Life, 509 

Buchanan, James, 1503 

Buckingham, E., 9"5 

Bucyrus, Ohio, 1595 

Buffalo COMMERCIAL (newspaper), 1028 1132 1539 1636 1844 1859 

Buffalo, N. Y., 308 372 431 440 611 701 731 840 844 850 1073 1542 1545 
1567 1591 1603 1618 1620 1622 1624 1625 1628 1631 1633 1636 1796 1816 
1818 1820 1823 1827 1828 1830 1834 1841-1843 1858 1871 1965 1968 1984 
2118 

Buffalo PILOT (newspaper), 1542 

Bugg, William, 453 '■- ■ -- 

*Building Construction, 203-205 

♦Building Materials, 206-215 ^«-' . 

'Buildings, 216-218 

Bull, Ole, 1077-1080 1086 

BuUard, Curtis, 1441 2023 •'^' ' ' 

BUNKER HILL (ship), 649 1152 1823 

*Burglaries. See Crime &amp; Criminals 

"Burial at Mt. Auburn of Mrs. W. , The" (poem), 1287 

Burlington, Iowa, 239 

Burlington, N. Y., 372 

Burnham, Isaac, 1721 

Burton, William, 963 

Bury, Richard, 282 

Bushnell, S. H., 559 

'Business. See Specific trades and commodities 

Butcher, Edward, 438 

Butler, B. F., 183 1476 

Butler, H. E., 2130 2133 

Butler (H. E.) and Company, 2115 



406 

INDEX 1845 

Butterfield, John, 1003 
Butts, C. S., 2095 
Buxton, D., 103 

"C. M. Clay" (poem), 1306 

Cabell, Edward C, 1431 

Cable, E., 714 771 776 782 

Cable, Elvira, 788 

Cable's nursery, 714 

Calhoun, J. C, 371 1481 1519 

CALEDONIA (ship), 710 1866 1867 

Caledonia water, 510 

California, 29-31 34 35 61 64 

Callow, T., 1264 1265 

CAMBRIA (ship), 1850 

Cambridge university, 757 

Cameron, Daniel, 435 

Camilus, N. Y., 1735 

Camp. See Philpot and Camp 

Camp and Wilkes co., 1240 

Camp, Charles L., 2 3 137 448 599 855 879 1330 1386 2095 

Camp, H., 825 

*Campaigns, Electoral. See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections 

Campbell, Alex, 269 

Campbellites, 2023 

*Canada, 219 

Canada, 11 58 219 308 417 440 510 669 1020 1591 1622 1632 1733-1735 

1737 1824 
Canal basin, 624 855 1650 

Canal bridge, 197 751 945 2098 2105 2113 2138 
Canal Dover, Ohio, 222 
*Canals &amp; Canal Boats, 220-237 
Canal st., 1650 1657 
Canandaigua, N. Y., 693 
Canderbeck, 1083 
Canfield, Herman D., 1328 
Canfield, S. B., 77-79 293 365 1127 
Canton, Ohio, 1582 1589 
*Capital &amp; Labor, 238 
♦Capital Punishment, 239-241 
Carleton, William, 165 
Carlin, Mastin, 436 
Carlton, C. C, 848 1675 1677 
Carlton (C. C,j and Greene, 352 539 
Carpenter, B, 0,, 1175 
Carroll, W, B,, 307 
Carson, M,, 1215 
Carthage, 111., 286 

Cary. See Scribner, Cary and Company 
Cary. See Willey and Cary 
Cary, John E,, 402 1414 
Case, William J., 81 1041 1189 1328 1528 



407 
INDEX 1845 

*Caskets, 242 243 

Cass, Lewis, 1153 14nl 1459 

Cassells, John L,, 1030 1041 

Castle. See Lynde and Castle 

Castner family, 240 

Cataract Engine Company No. 5, 762 

Catlett, A. G., 1585 1597 1621 

♦Cattle. See Hay &amp; Feed; Livestock 

Caul, Peter, 313 488 1334 

♦Celebrations. See Anniversaries; Holidays 

Celey, W., 270 

*Ceaietaries, 244 245 

♦Census &amp; Population, 246-249 

Central buildings, 911 1026 1031 1202 1549 1685 

Centreburgh, Ohio, 1936 

Centre st., 632 1661 

Chagrin Falls. Ohio, 277 300 969 1353 1384 1537 2002 2021 2023 2058 2072 

Chagrin Falls Temperance band, 2025 

Chagrin Falls township, 1357 1441 

Chagrin river, 1866 

Chamberlain, J. F., 1330 1645 

Chamberlain, J. P., 10 

Chamberlin, A., 415 

Chamberlin, David, 497 

Chamberlin, Lydia, 497 

Chamberlin, Nancy, 497 

Chambers, David, 127 

Champion block, 1657 

Champlain st., 478 1650 1920 ■ 

Champlain St. school, 626 629 

Chapman and Hamilton, 2042 

Chapman, George M., 1505 

Chardon. Ohio, 1374 1781 2084 

Chase, S. P., 402 1121 

Chatham st., 1693 

Charles Hood hotel, 1721 

Charleston, S. C, 1472 

Cheapside building, 1909 

♦Chemical Products, 250-255 

CHESAPEAKE (ship), 433 699 1055 1056 1152 1160 1810 1871 2135 

Cheshire alley, 1922 

Cheshire st., 1928 1930 

Chester, Ohio, 1724 

Chestnut st., 1020 1645 1931 

CHICAGO (ship), 1873 

Chicago, Ill., 147 466 1578 1581 1630 1819 1820 1823 1827 1845 1846 1857 

1860 1862 1870 2056 
Chickering, J., 1115 
♦Children, 256-262 

♦Children's Wear. See Clothing Trade 
Childs, H. M., 1003 



408 

INDEX 1845 

Chillicothe ADVERTISER (newspaper), 1183 1958 

Chillicothe GAZETTE (newspaper), 1148 

Chillicothe, Ohio, 177 

China, 95 

Chippewa Indians, 838 

Chippewa township, Ohio, 1725 

*Chiropody &amp; Chiropodists, 263 . ' 

Choate, Rufus, 1791 

"Christmas" (poem), 1323 1324 

Christy, C. N., 563-565 567 568 ' ■- •;■ 

Christy, Daniel, 1529 

Christy's minstrels, 2092 2093 

Church, Henry, 904 1102 1343 

♦Churches &amp; Sects, 264-301 

Churchill, Charles H., 1775 

Cincinnati ATLAS (newspaper), 1192 1602 1604 1611 

Cincinnati CHRONICLE (newspaper), 126 365 1035 1191 1610 

Cincinnati ENQUIRER (newspaper), 148 1183 1187 1189 

Cincinnati GAZETTE (newspaper), 118 126 404 913 1802 

Cincinnati Historical society, 753 

Cincinnati, Ohio, 236 377 378 402 587 907 1121 1191 1224 1368 1389 1435 

1515 1563 1571 1578 1582 1586 1588 1590 1594 1595 1598 1600 1603 

1634 1685 1802 1868 1890 1964 2076 
Cincinnati REFORMER (newspaper), 1126 
Cincinnati UNION (newspaper), 1447 1611 
Circleville, Ohio, 1960 
*Circuses, 302-308 
♦Citizenship, 309 

City building, 342 524 548 1689 1796 1953 1954 
City cemetery, 959 
*City Government, 310-324 
City hotel, 721 
City Mills store, 1686 1707 
*Claims. See Awards &amp; Claims 
Clark. See Bartlett and Clark 
Clark. See Raymond and Clark 
Clark, Aaron, 971 
Clark and Company, 232 
Clark, C. Theresa, 1300 1316 
Clark, James F., 1754 
Clark, Mervin, 748 
Clark and Murfey, 736 843 
Clark, Thomas, 473 
Clarke, David, 420 721 806 

Clarke and Fiske, 518 1692 ..... 

Clarke, J. M., 2041 
Clarke, Lewis Gaylord, 175 
Clarke, W. A., 1676 
Clary, S., 1015 1711 1835 

CLATER &amp; YOUATT'S CATTLE DOCTOR (book), 172 . . , : 

CLATER ON DISEASES OF HORSES (book), 172 ' • ■ ^'^ 



409 

INDEX 1845 

Clav, Cassius M., 556 1024 1137 1229 1306 1889-1896 1899 

Clay, Henry, 1034 1140 1488 1519 

Clermont COURIER (newspaper), 2037 

Clermont county, Ohio, 155 1446 

CLEVELAND (ship), 1536 1830 1870 187» 

Cleveland and Hudson railroad, 1560 1573 1582 

Cleveland and Ohio River railroad, 366 1579 

Cleveland and Pittsburgh railroad, 1557 1559 1561 1562 1565 1576 1585 

1596 1597 1621 1635 1640 
Cleveland and Sterling, 945 
Cleveland and Wellsville turnpike, 1640 
Cleveland, A, H., 5 
Cleveland Amateur minstrels, 563 
Cleveland AMERICAN (newspaper), 1182 
Cleveland board of health, 488 491 492 
Cleveland centre, 103 250 254 
Cleveland Centre block, 252 255 1203 
Cleveland city council, 105-115 196-198 311-324 488 591 599 606 631 

644-646 654 656 657 662 762 877-879 960 978 988 1140 1340 1547 1605- 

1607 1625 1631 1651 1711 1712 1755 1912-1918 1921-1923 1927 1928 

1930-1932 1934 1952 1956 2057 2068 2070 
Cleveland City Seed store, 711 747 
Cleveland co., 192 
Cleveland fire department, 1208 
Cleveland HERALD (newspaper), 55 117 135 318 584 647 745 789 1125 1134 

1135 1141 1155 1163 1164 1181 1182 1191-1193 1200-1202 1336 1362 

1364 1720 1734 1735 1744 1799 1973 2056 
Cleveland Medical college, 772 992 993 995 996 998 999 1000-1002 1004 

1006 1008-1011 1039 1045 1246 1793 
Cleveland PLAIN DEALER (newspaper), 1139 1140 1143 1149 1182 1196 1336 

1497 1547 
Cleveland Public Square, 341 483 566 605 762 765 951 981 984 986 1070 

1071 1554-1556 1649 1753 1766 
Cleveland REPUBLICAN (newspaper), 555 .... . . . 

Cleveland seminary, 1756 1764 1769 1770 

Cleveland TIMES (newspaper), 1177 1182 1448 1450 

Cleveland township, Ohio, 256 581 1337 1339 1953 1954 

Cleveland township poor house, 262 2022 2023 

Cleveland, James D., 81 1780 

Cleveland brass band, 604 762 1055-1057 1067 1068 1070 1071 1094 1095 

1110 1111
Cleveland, Columbus, and Cincinnati railroad, 380 1562 1566 1579 1583 

1584 1592 1599 1600-1602 1607-1610 1613 1614 1617 1619 1627 1628 

1637-1639 1641 1643 
Clifton, John, 532 540 
Clingman, Thomas L., 553 554 
Clinton hall, 1666 
Clinton line, 1811 
Clinton st., 1656 
*Clothing Trade, 325-355 
Coakly's Temperance house, 292 



410 

INDEX 1845 

♦Coal, 356-360 ■ - :; ;•■•."?. 

Coatley's (C.) inn, 1336 

Cobb (A. R.) and Company, 1849 

Cobb, Sutherland, and Company, 214 635 . 

Cobb, Zenas, 1330 '•;" 

Cochton, Henry, 182

Coe. See Doddridge and Coe ''■■■ . ;• : . - '--; 

Coe, Asher M., 630 1959 :-■. ■■'.■■■ &lt; 

Coe Ridge, Ohio, 1537 

Coe, S. S., 824 1328 

Coggins, Edward H., 1295 

Cogswell, F. F., 1389 1721 

Coit, H. 11. , 776 . . • 

Colahan's point, 491 

Coleman, J. G., 559 

College Place, 419 

*Colleges &amp; Universities, 361-367 

Collier, James, 1404 1405 1412 

Collins, John W., 1522

Colton, G. H., 1233

COLUMBIA (ship), 1860 - •'•.. 

Columbia, Ohio, 1623 

Columbiana county, Ohio, 1585 1640 

Columbia county REPUBLICAN (newspaper), 707 

COLUMBUS (ship), 2126 

Columbus and Wellsville railroad, 1632 

Columbus and Lake Erie railroad, 1643 

Columbus and Xenia railroad, 1563 1610 

Columbus block, 283 1654 

Columbus JOURNAL (newspaper), 1602 

Columbus, Ohio, 15-17 49 118 143 377 587 656 702 909 1023 1157 1385 
1413 1437 1447 1460 1563 1564 1568 1570-1572 1574 1577 1578 1586 
1588 1590 1594 1595 1600 1601 1604 1605 1609 1612 1613 1626 1628 
1634 1638 1639 1642 1643 1739 1970 2023 2036 

Columbus st., 1203 

♦Commerce, 368-372 

Commercial Bank of Lake Erie, 339 534 621 917 1651 

Commercial buildings, 484 926 933 

♦Commercial Colleges. See Education - Commercial 

Commercial exchange, 212 216 

♦Commission Houses. See Wholesale Trade - Commission Houses 

♦Communities and Places, 373-375 

♦Community Growth, 376-382 

♦Commutations &amp; Pardons, 383 384 

COMSTOCK'S MINERALOGY book), 1785 

♦Conduct &amp; Customs, 385-392 '. . " 

Congregational church, 2002 2021 

CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCER, 1242 

Connecticut, 241 480 481 766 1415 1518 1795 2017 

Connecticut river, 647 

CONSTITUTION (ship), 1536 



411 
INDEX 1845 

"Construction. See Bridges; Building Construction; Building Materials; Hospitals; Hotels &amp; Lodgings; Railroads; Roads &amp; Highways 
Convenience lane, 1914 
Cook, Charles W., 466 
Cook, Eliza, 1319 
Cook, George M., 1003 
Cook, Richard, 810 811 
Cooper, J. Fenimore, 175 928 931 
*Copper. See Brass &amp; Copper 
Corlet, William, 1857 1862 
Corwin, Thomas, 1034 
Corning. See Williams and Corning 
Corpus Christ i, Tex., 66 2060 
Corr, H. H., 797 

♦Cosmetics &amp; Toilet Goods, 393-397 
Cotterell, M. S., 632 1331 
*Cotton, 398 
Council hall, 596 1465 
*Courts, 399-407 
Cowdery, M. F., 1786 

Cowing, Richmond, Williams, and Company, 2118 
Cowles. See Smead and Cowles 
Cowles, E. W., 1343 1549 

Cozad, Cynthia L., 474 

Cozad, Elias, 474 

Cozad, Samuel, 619 1740 2021 • ., 

Cozzens, A., 666-668 
Craig, William S., 1550 
Crangle, John, 717 
Crangle, Bailey, and Company, 717 
Craw, James M., 653 660 662 
Crawford, B., 1335 
Crawford, Benjamin, 1740 
Crawford county. Wis., 213 

Crawford county, Ohio, 1572 ■.. ; 

Crawford, T. Hartley, 835 

Creek Indians, 835 ... 

♦Crime &amp; Criminals, 408-450 
Crittenden, J. H., 217 343 911 
Crittenden, N. C, 1114 
Crittenden, N. E., 325 340 345 533 738 806 864 866 869 1329 1330 1333 

1701 
Crittenden, S. W., 1328 

Cross and Parks, 916 ' . 

Cross, D. W., 916 1497 
Cross St., 1658 

Crowl. See Russell and Crowl 
CROWLEY (ship), 1840 
Cuba, 35 715 1126 
CUMBERLAND (ship), 1858 
Cumberland, Md., 226 1616 



412 

INDEX 1845 

Cunard steamship line, 1850 ; ••;■.. 

'Currency. See Money ' ■■-■■'-•'■ '-v.;..: ;. ir:. :•';■,•.... 

Cutler, L. H., 596 

Cutter, A. D., 331 716 1688 

Cutter, 0., 27 99 103 541 665 726 734 948 1907 2102 

Cuyahoga and Columbiana railroad, 1559 1561 

Cuyahoga County Association of Teachers and Friends of Popular Education, 1784 
Cuyahoga County Bible society, 278 279 
Cuyahoga county commissioners, 19^ 200 406 1727 1731 
Cuyahoga Copper Mining and Smithing co., 1019 
Cuyahoga county court house, 100-102 121 122 580 612 713 891 899 925 

1327 1352 1354 1359 1439 1605-1608 1620 1622 1624 1652 1717 1885 

1993 1994 1996 1998 2091 2094 
Cuyahoga county court of common pleas, 98 102 141 399 405 406 411-415 

437 438 451-454 456 495 497-499 500 661 
Cuyahoga county jail, 1221 2022 
Cuyahoga county, Ohio, 17 21 118 119 124 144 157 402 449 496 745 909 

923 924 987 9S9 1021 1345 1347 1348 1357 1379 1380 1385 1387-1390 

1394 1397 1398 1401 1413 1426 1439 1442 1450 1457 1469 1471 1537 

1566 1737 1747 1778 1780 1783 1959 1982 2036 • ■ 
Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, 271 277 
Cuyahoga House, 1902 1903 
Cuyahoga river, 2 216 366 658 752 1211 1640 1711 1867 2116 2118 2119 

2130 2131 
Cuyahoga Steam Furnace co., 106 202 954 1826 1828 1874 1908 

Daguerre, Louis, 1262 

Dallas, George M., 241 1488 . - 

Dalton, Ohio, 1728 • • : 

*Damage Suits, 451-456 ■'■■ ■• - ' ■ • 

*Dancing, 457 458 

Daniels, George, 436 '.■■ , : ■• 

Dartmouth college, 984 - ■- ' - " .-. 

Davidson county, Tenn., 1421 

Davies, George C, 1263 .- .;/ :' ■■. 

Davis. See Kinne, Davis, and Company . . •" ; • 

Davis, A., 312 ■ . . . . 

Davis, John, 1252 

Davis, R., 1794 

Dawson, John B., 1147 

Day, William, 294 

Day's school, 1748 1757 1765 

Dayton JOURNAL (newspaper), 928 

Dayton, Ohio, 158 377 929 - ." 

De Neufbourg, Clement, 930 .. •■ . 

♦Deafness, 459 460 

Dean, Gardner, 1990 1992 1994 1995 1997 2001 2005 2010 2012 2022 

Dean, H., 1973 

Dean, Thomas. 410. See also Thomas, Henry ■-' 

DEATH ON THE PALE HORSE (painting), 86 88-91 "■ ■ • -- . 



413 
INDEX 1845 

*DEATHS, 461-481 

Decker, D. S., 1336 

Declaration of Independence, 760 765 

Delaware, 1482 1642 1644 

Delaware county, Ohio, 1572 1583 

Delaware GAZETTE (newspaper), 1583 

Delaware, Ohio, 1583 1584 1595 

Delameter, Eliza, 962 

Delamater, J. J., \191 992 1000 1010 1246 

Delameter,' John, 962 996 1000 1002 , ., 

Dellet, James, 1794 

Deming, C, 411 

DEMOCRATIC EXPOSITOR (newspaper), 1174 

Democratic party, 42 70 145 146 153-155 157 158 1140 1149 1153 1156- 
1158 1161-1163 1166 1169 1171 1183 1184 1342 1369 1371 1392 1396 
1397 1402 1408 1415-1417 1419 1420 1423 1425 1427-1431 1437-1439 
1442 1443 1445 1447-1450 1452 1453 1455 1461 1464 1467 1474 1476 
1478-1480 1496 1501 1504 1505 1508 1511-1514 1518 1523 1795 1881 
1886 1894 1898 1943 1944 1958 1959 1961 2063 2143 

Denick, Laura, 499 

Denick, Valentine, 499 1740 

Denker and Borges, 333 344 

Denman, Mary Louise, 975

Dennison, Charles W., 1225 

♦Dentistry &amp; Dentists, 482-486 

Deshong, P. M., 976 977 

DETROIT (ship), 9 

Detroit ADVERTISER (newspaper), 737 1258 1841 1871 

Detroit EXPRESS (newspaper), 56 

Detroit FREE PRESS (newspaper), 55 147 1507 

Detroit, Mich., 147 194 288 372 501 608 1507 1545 1816 1818 1830 1841 
1843 1872 1880 1964 2051 2056 2060 2118 

Detroit river, 1591 

Detroit st., 1654 

Detroit theatre, 2042 

Dewey and Elkins, 1144 1150 

D'Israeli, B., 167  

Dial. David, 155 

Dibble, Lewis, 934 

Dickenson, Parley, 992 

Dille, A. L., 21 1981 

♦Diplomatic Service. See Foreign Relations - Diplomatic Service 

"Discontented Sands, The" (poem), 1321 

♦Diseases, 487-494 

Disney, David T., 133 1958 

District of Columbia, 1441 

Division St., 199 252 1686 1707 1920 2104 

♦Divorce &amp; Alimony, 495-500 

Doan. D. C, 581 

Doan's Corner, 292 904. See also East Cleveland, Ohio. 



414 

INDEX 1845 

*Docks &amp; Piers. See Streets - Improvements 

Dockstader, N. and R., 332 431 

DR. LARDNER'S LECTURES (book), 167 

Doddridge and Coe, 824 1819 2137 : • : 

Doddridge, N. W., 824 .:-. :; 

Dodge, George, C, 780 1450 1525 ■: ■= .,— ■••. • . 

Dodge. S., 1621 1635 1640 • " ' 

Dodge, H. H., 81 

*Dogs, 501 502 

*Domestic Relations. See Families &amp; Family Life; Marriage &amp; Marriages 

Donaldson, Paschal, 1226 

Donizetti, Gaetano, 1059 

Doolittle, William, 1648 • -, -• 

Dorr, Thomas W., 384 1430 1473 1475- ■■'•■• '■ ' 

Dorwin, G., 621 ■ 

Dover, Ohio, 461 630 1381 1537 1959

Dow, Jesse E., 1145 1237 . , .... ' 

Dow, Prentis, 122 140 144 851 1737 ' ' : ' 

Dodge, Augustus C, 2065 ' ■ ;. . ' . 

Downing. A. J., 180 

Drake, Elias F., 1457 

*Dressraaking, 503 

Drews. See Wilson and Drews 

'Droughts, 504-508 .... . ■. .. 

*Drugs &amp; Druggists, 509-519 • 

*Dry Goods, 520-552 

*Duels &amp; Dueling, 553-557 

Duffield, George, 288

DUMB BELLE (play), 2043 . ■ 

Dunham, Charles H., 1335 1336

Dunham, D. B., 1392 - • '" .■ 

Dunham, Rufus, 809 1335 

Dunham's Fountain House, 809 2023 2058 

Dunkirk, N. Y., 1603 

Dunn, P., 1335 .. . ' . 

Duow, M., 312 

"Dutch, Cure, A" (poem), 1283 

Duty, Daniel W., 242 687 

Dwight. See Lamb and Dwight 

Dwight, Elihu, 251 

Eagle Engine' Company No. 1, 762 - :■ 

Eagle St., 275 ■ 

East Cleveland, Ohio, 7 292 1335 1336 1363 1783 1784 1971 1976 1977 

2021 2079 
East Euclid, Ohio, 1365 1537 
Eaton, E. A., 341 - ■ 

Earl, Aner, 924 

Earl 's school, 1745 ■ 

Eckert, William R., 510 854 2112 



415 
INDEX 1845 

Eckford Line, 1836 

ECLECTIC FOURTH READER (book), 1780 

Eddy, Ezra, 1351 1386 1389 

Eddy, L., 595 601 

*Education, 558-560 

Edwards, Frederick, 410 

EDWARD MIDDLETON OR THE HUSBAND'S RETURN (play), 2047 2048 2050 

EDWIN FOREST (ship), 411 

Egerton. See Brayton, Egerton, and Watrous 

Ehrlick, L., 622 

*Elections. See Political Campaigns &amp; Elections 

ELEMENTARY OUTLINE OF MENTAL PHILOSOPHY FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS (book), 1788 
Elkins. See Dewey and Elkins 
Elliott and Company, 784 788 792 797 
Elliott. F. R., 650-652 685 771 773 1043 1227 1230 1232 
Ely, Herman, 1630 
Ely, S. W., 1175 

Elyria, Ohio, 249 291 701 1505 1595 1628 1630 
Eliziibethtown, N. J., 1259 
ELIZABETH WARD (ship), 13 
Emerson, George H., 297 1133 
Emerson, Oliver, 1389 
"Emigrants, The" (poem), 1309 
Emmons, J. B., 596 
EMPIRE iship), 1539 1802 1810 1826 1827 1829 1845 1852 1859 1874 2056 

2135 
Empire building, 92 217 534 542 1116 
Empire hall, 82 87 217 269 298 299 300 572 573 575 903 1040 1042 1043 

1062 1094 1095 1095-1/2 1098 1099 1101 1103 1105 1106 1967 1968 2025 

2062 2028 2029 
"Empire, The" (poem), 1294 
*Employment &amp; Unemployment, 561 
"End of the Road, The" (poem), 1305 
*Engraving &amp; Lithographing, 562 
*Entertainment, 563-578 

Equador, 673

ERIE (ship), 1855 1905 
Erie canal, 1811-1813 1835 
Erie county, Ohio, 1401 
Erie, Pa., 223 356 372 758 973 1714 1841 

Erie st., 5 607 609 623-628 762 764 804 998 1001 1002 1660 1771 2069 
Erie St. school, 1782 
Ericsson, John, 1844 
Erwin, John, 911 
Erwin, Samuel, 1740 
•Estates, 579-581 

Euclid, Ohio, 282 788 782 797 1365 1537 
Euclid St., 607 609 898 994 1660 1664 1766 1774 2067 



416 

INDEX 1845 

*Europe, 582 583 

Everett (H. and A.), 982 {:■:■[ .•.,■■. 

Evergreen place, 786 

EVEREST ON HOMEOPATHY (book), 517 

EXPRESS (ship), 232 

Exchange office, 545 • . : 

Exchange building, 2101 • 

*Exhibitions, 584-586 . .-; 

"Exile's Request, The" (poem), 1302 

Eyles, William M., 1726 

*Expansion, National. See Annexation &amp; Expansion 

*Express &amp; Expressmen, 587 

Faber, Theodore, 253 675 880 935 1680 1687 2107 2128 2129 

Fagan, Mrs. Thomas, 19C6 

Fagan, Thomas, 1906 : •, '. ■•.•■ 

Fairchild, G., 277 

Fairfield, Ohio, 1595 

Fairport, Ohio, 499 1817 1838 1839 1871 :■ ■ 

♦Families &amp; Family Life, 588 589 

"Family Scene, A" (poem), 1297 

Fanning (D. 0.) and Company, 1707 

FANNY CAMPBELL, THE FEMALE PIRATE CAPTAIN (book), 179 

Faran, J. J., 1515 

Farmer block, 982 

Farmer Block reservoir, 595 

Farmer's Collegiate hall, 19 

FARMER'S LIBRARY AND MONTHLY JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE (periodical), 1239 
Farmers' and Mechanics' bank, 1030 
"Farmer's Nooning" (poem), 1295 
"Farms &amp; Farming. See Agriculture 

Farnham, F. H., 921 - • : 

Farnsworth, Elon, 1507 

*Fashions, 590 • ' 

FAVORITE (ship), 1832 
FEMALE HUSBAND, THE (play), 2042 
Fenzell, Louisa, 455 
Ferguson, Wattie, 569 
Ferris, J. B., 277 
Field (D. E.) and Company, 870 
Field, D. E., 897-899 . ^ ■ . , - 

Filley, Catherine R., 579 
Filley, Horace, 462 579 
Finch, S., 1583 
Fink, C. and W., 642 
Finney, James B., 248 322 469 
"Fire Department, 591-616 
Fireman's General association, 594 602 .' ..... .&lt;• 

"Fireman, The" (poem), 1276 
Firemen's Insurance co., 454 947 1579 
*Fires &amp; Fire Prevention, 617-642 



417 
INDEX 1845 

First Baptist church. See Baptist church 

First Congregational church. See Congregational church 

First Presbyterian church. See Presbyterian church 

*Fish &amp; Game, 643-649 

Fish, Ebenezer, 968 

Fish, Hannah, 968 

Fish (E.) and Company, 2108 

Fish (S. M.) and Company, 2108 

Fisher, E. B., 1837 

Fisher, Jonathan, 555 1378 

Fisk, Theopilus, 1145 

Fiske. See Clarke and Fiske 

Fitch, C. L., 1264 1265 

Fitch, Mrs. Charles, 1771 

Fitch, J. W., 1838 

Fitch, Sherman, 1601 

Fitch, Zalmon, 2094 2095 •'''' - 

Fitch's school, 1777 

Fitchville, Ohio, 1595 ^^■•- '■ 

Fleming and Babcock, 722 

Flint, E. S., 1454 

Flint, John, 1938 

Flint, Mich., 476 

Float bridge, 251 2111 

Florida, 1431 

Florida war, 2059 

*Flowers &amp; Florists, 650-652 

Floyd, T. C, 197 1352 

Folsom, E. G., 558 

*Food Adulteration &amp; Inspection, 653-662 '^'- •" 

♦Food &amp; Drink, 663-668 

Foot. See Andrews, Foot, and Hoyt 

Foot, H., 456 679 

Foot, John A., 402 1971 1975 1981 2023 

Foote, Ezra, 973 

Foote, H., 580 

Foote, Horace, 1355 1682 

Foote, Mary Ann, 973 

Foote, ff. A., 2013 

Forbey, John, 611 612 1208 

Forbes, E. K., 1832 

Ford, Seabury, 1388 1389 1784 

♦Foreign Population. See Citizenship; Immigration &amp; Emigration 

♦Foreign Relations, 669-673 

♦Foreign Trade. See Commerce - Foreign Trade 

♦Forgeries, 674 

Fort George, 1412 

Fort Wayne SENTINEL (newspaper), 737 

Foster, Ephraim H., 41 42 1421 

Foster, Joseph, 436 

Foster, S. S., 1883 



418 

INDEX 1845 

Fowler's Hotel, 7 ^•■■.■;;;-': • ^-■''•-;\ 

Fowls, Lewis, 968

Fox's boarding house, 294 ;:' ■•■? •■ . ■.;■■.. 

France, 583 

FRANCIS MILLS (ship), 1866 

Francisco, Peter, 417 

Franklin building, 337 355 523 525 535 537 552 916 1266 1665 

Franklin county, Ohio, 1453 

Franklin House, 164 263 326 340 348 586 690 738 806 808 869 1094 

Franklin, P., 263 

Frazier. See Fry and Frazier _ ' 

Freeman, H. K. , 1721 1971 

Freeman, Jesse K., 1721 ■. . , 

Freese and Fry, 1776 ■ '• . 

Freese, Andrew, 1780 1784 . .. 

Frelinghuysen, Theodore, 1488 

FREMONT'S NARRATIVE (book), 186 

French, Eliza Ann, 965 

French (F.) and Company, 2138 

French, loseph, 965 

FRENCH SPY (play), 2045 

FRUIT &amp; FRUIT TREES OF AMERICA, THE (book), 180 

*Fruits &amp; Vegetables, 675-686 

Fry. See Freese and Fry 

Fry and Frazier, 694 

Frv, Richard, 1754 1763 1773 1784 

Fuller, F. C, 1528 1753 1756 1764 1769 

Fuller, Spencer S., 438 

Fuller, William, 1682 

Fulton and Erie Canal line, 2137 

♦Furniture, 687-694 

Gaines, Edmond P., 65-67 68 70 

Galloway, Samuel, 2041 ...... .-. .' 

Galpin, N. P., 2102 

♦Gambling &amp; Lotteries, 695-697 

*Games &amp; Sports, 698-701 

Garden st., 1928 

Gardner, A. S., 210 531 1694 

Gardner, James, 313 599 1330 1334 1341 

Gardner, R. B., 277 

Gardner and Vincent, 243 689 691 

Garrett, D. J., 1356 .. 

Garrison, William Lloyd, 1896 

Gates, Hiram T., 465 ..":';. ..... 

Gates, James, 470 

Gates Mills, Ohio, 1537 

Gaylord, Allen, 471 

Gaylord, H. and E., 509 733 736 1263 1647 1679 

Gaylord, Henry C, 365 



419 

INDEX 1845 

Gaylord, Philean, 471 

Geauga county, Ohio, 745 909 1149 1388 1389 1401 1449 1537 

Geauga WHIG (newspaper), 1374 

Geddes, George, 1735 

Gelmartin, John, 419 

General Assembly of Ohio. See Ohio legislature 

GENERAL SCOTT (ship), 1810 

♦General Stores. See Retail Stores &amp; Commodities; specific trades and commodities 
GENERAL WAYNE (ship), 1856 
GEORGE M. BIBB (ship), 1868 
Georgia, 2141 

German cicy guards, 762 1014 1902 1903 
Germany, 477 814 1492 
Gibert, Signor, 1084 1085 
Giddings, Calvin, 1376 
Giddings, C. M., 771 
Giddings, G. F., 1231 
Giddings, J. R., 50 803 1486 1516 1971 
Giddings, W. F., 2023 
Gilbert, H. B., 412 
Gilbert, L., 1113 
Gillett, J., 1811 2111 
Girard, Stephen, 238 

Girty. See Barber and Girty i 

Girty, George W., 830 2127 
Gledhill, Joseph, 855 ■ ■ . 

Congressional GLOBE, 1146

"Glory To God On High" (hymn), 79 

Gold's school, 1742 1749 1772 

Gooding, William, 234 

Goodrich, S. C, 1789 

GOODRICH'S NEW NATIONAL GEOGRAPHY (book), 1787 1789 

Goodwin, W. T., 599 615 654 723 725 1337 1339 

Gorham, Alpin, and Smith, 116 

*Government. See City Government; Politics &amp; Government 

Governor's island, 2063 

Grafton, Ohio, 1728 1730 

Graham, G. R., 

GRAHAM'S MAGAZINE, 1223 

♦Grain, 702-709 

Granger, Ohio, 277 1729 

Graves, Hiram W., 2021 2023 

Graves, Josiah, 1719 

Graves, Noah, 1353 1357 

Gray. See Boardman and Gray 

Gray, A. N., 661 

Gray, H. C, 1185 

Gray, J. W., 1450 1778 

Gray, Me., 967 

♦Great Britain, 710 

Great Britain, 32 38 58 64 72 193 357 359 670-672 708 710 1053 

1172 1211 1212 1214 1517 1798 1801 1881 1943 



420 

INDEX 1845 

I 

GREAT WESTERN (ship), 1865 

Great Western railroad, 1591 

Greeley, Horace, 241 1551 

Greely and McElrath, 1239 '.■■ ' 

Green, J. H., 697 894 805 1986 ' • . • 

Greene. See Carlton (C, C.) and Greene 

*Greenhouses &amp; Nurseries, 711-714 

Gregory, J. G. and Company, 696 ;■ ■■;'■- 

Greiner, John, 2041 

Grey, Miles, 557 

Griffith, D. and J. S., 2110 

Griffith, James, 2058 

Griffith, James S., 964 :.' 

*Groceries &amp; Grocers, 715-725 

GROVES OF BLARNEY, THE (book), 185 

Gunn, Elijah, 471 

Guptil, J. H., 1364 

Gurley, Orville, 313 1334 

Gustavus, Ohio, 277 '• 

Guy, Thomas, 277 

Gzowski, C. S., 1737 • • 

Hale, John P., 1794 
Hall, Albina, 267 
Hall, Mrs. J. C, 185 
Hall, Lyman W., 1788 
Hammer, Thomas L., 1406 1408 
Hamilton. See Chapman and Hamilton 
Hamilton, Canada, 1737 

Hamilton county, Ohio, 19 37 153 154 1391 1438 1446 1957 
Hamilton st., 1656 

Hamilton's school, 1762 1768 ■ • 

Hamlin. See Wright and Hamlin . ^. 
Hammond, James H., 1881 
Hancock block, 268 718 884 1338 1433 1754 
Handerson, L., 1356 

Handerson and Punderson, 207 209 215 514 516 1217 
Handy, Truman P., 141 159 162 456 1038 1566 1579 
Hanford (J. E. ) and Company, 338 
Hanks and Hopkins, 92 831 1116 

Hanks, J. F., 93 633 831 1343 1971 1980 2002 2023 2035 
Hanks, J. H., 1976 
Hannaford, Reuben M., 1350 
♦Hardware, 726-740 
Harper, James, 1551 

HARPER'S PICTORIAL BIBLE (book), 176 

Harrington, Mrs. B., 797 ■ : ■ 

Harrington, H., 1015 ' ■ 

Harris. See Brown and Harris 

Harris, J. A., 392 1202 1278 1329 1337 1344 1345 1347 1349-1351 1353 
1355 1362 1375 1377 1379 1381-1384 1424 1555 1754 1924 1955 



421 

INDEX 1845 



Harris, Jason S., 2067 

Harris, Mrs. P. B., 4

Harrisburgh, Ohio, 1737 1964 

Harrisburgh, Pa., 359 1964 

Harrison, William H., 836 1035 1531 

Harrisville, Ohio, 1642 1730 

Hart, A. E., 648 1803 1828 

Hart, William, 1331 

Hartford, Conn., 620 674 

Hartford DAILY AND WEEKLY JOURNAL (newspaper), 1148 

Hartford COURANT (newspaper), 2017 

Hartness, James, 580 

Harvey, David, 132 1131 1379 1383 1386 1389 1394 1486 

Harvey, Jacob, 852 

Hascall, A. P., 1253 

Haskell. See Mackenzie and Haskell 

Haskell, D. M., 1213 1214 

Hastings, B. B., 395 396 865 872 873

Hastings, Thomas, 1054 

"Haunted Child, The" (poem), 1310 

Havemeyer, William F., 1369 

*Hay &amp; Feed, 741-748 

Hayden, A. S., 969 .^:-^ 

Hayden, Elizabeth, 969 

Hayden, William, 903 969 

Haydn, Anson, 430 431 

Haydn, H. A., 430 

Hayes. See Hi 1 Hard and Hayes 

Haynes, Hannah, 414 

Haynes, J., 414 

Hayward. See Sanford and Hayward 

Hayward, Joseph, 411 412 

Hazewell, C. C, 148 1153 1156 1161 1162 1166 1169 1184 

Heard, C. W., 313 1334 1450 2095 

Heiss. See Ritchie and Heiss - 

HELEN STRONG (ship), 1807 

*Hemp &amp; Jute, 749 

HEMPEL'S THESIS (book), 517 

Henry county, Ohio, 1391 

Henry, I. R., 925 

Henry and Keevil, 584 585 

HENRY LORRINGNER (book), 174 

Henry, Patrick, 1422 1464 

HERCULES (ship), 1820 

Herley, Ann, 436 .. ■ 

Hermitage, 467 

Herrick, J. S., 2032 

HERRING'S, DOMESTIC PHYSIC (book), 517 

Hewitt and Ackley, 980 

Hewitt and Lyon, 1836 2109 2126 2129 

Hewitt, M. L., 1010 



422 

INDEX 1845 

HIBERNIA (ship), 1864 

Hick's and Miner's Patent Portable Vapor baths, 1007 

Hickox, Abraham, 480 

Hickox, C, 2124 ■,:-,_ 

Hickox (C.) and Company, 2124 • 

Hickox, Charles, 1330 

Hickox, Milo M., 792 1020 1331 

*Hides &amp; Skins, 750-752 

High St., 1657 1921 

Hildreth, S. L., 773 785 788 

HILL'S PATRIOT (newspaper), 1423 

Hilliard and Hayes, 338 2101 

Hilliard, Richard, 1566 1613 1661 

♦History &amp; Historians, 753 754 

HISTORY OF A FLIRT, THE (book), 165 

Hitchcock. See Benedict and Hitchcock 

Hitchcock, J. K., 918 920 

"Hot - Hot - All's Hot!" (poem), 1291 

Hotchkiss, H., 277 

Hoadley, George, 915 

Hoadley's mills, 1623 

Hobbs, W., 1708 

Hoffman, Jacob F., 1253 

Hoffman, John, 1253 

Hogs Back hill, 2022 

Holbrook, Josiah, 1744 

♦Holidays, 755-770 

Holland, 1949 

Holmes county, Ohio, 1609 1619 1628 

HOLMES COUNTY WHIG (newspaper), 1609 

Holt, J., 724 1975 

Holt and Maltby, 666 

*Homicides, 771-799 ,. .., . ;. 

Honolulu, 863 

Hook and Ladder Company No. 1, 762 

Hope Hose Engine Company No. 1, 762 

Hopkins. See Hanks and Hopkins 

Hopkins, H. P., 831 1007 1331 1876 

"Home" (poem), 1270 

Hopkinsville, Ohio, 967 . . 

Hosmer, Eben, 966 

Hosmer, Maria Abigail, 966 

♦Hospitals, 800-804 

♦Hotels &amp; Lodgings, 805-815 

Hough and Scoville, 2047 2048 2051 

Houghton, James, 711 

House, H. M., 351 536 

♦Household Equipment &amp; Furnishings. See Retail Stores &amp; Trade 

Houston, Sam, 1475 

Hovey, Delas W., 440 

Howden, J. W., 698 



423 

INDEX 1845 



Howe, Marcus, 2001 

Howitt, William, 1013 

Hoyt. See Andrews, Foot, and Hoyt 

Hoyt, Butler, 1444 

Hoyt, D. 0., 985 

Hoyt, D. v., 833 

Hoyt, James M., 1041 

Hoyt, Jessie, 1476 

Hubbard, S. B., 2041 

Hubbell, H. N., 459 4fi0 900 

Hubby and Hughes, 220 2123 

Hubby, L. M., 1330 

Hudson bay, 31 

Hudson, C. W., 297 1133 

Hudson, Ohio, 362 334-366 1090 1167 1640 1727 1971 

Hudson river, 1905 

Huene, Fritz, 1049 

Hughes. See Hubby and Hughes 

Hughes, A., 313 488 491 1334 2095 

Hughes, E., 861 

Hugunin. See Winch and Hugunin "" " ' 

Hugunin, J. B., 821 1328 

Hull, Anderson, 963 

Humer, R., 1034 

Humiston, H. N., 1656 

Humphrey, William, 1721 

Hunt, James, 1529 

Hunterian society, 127 

Huntington and Brooks, 418 945 1683 1685 

Huntington, Henry, 496 1685 .^ 

Huntington, T., 328 346 1328 

Huntington, Minerva, 496 

Huntington, 0. E., 1695 

Huntington, Ohio, 277 

Hurd, C. W., 595 601 

Hurlburt, H. A., 915 

Huron county, Ohio, 1401 1572 

Huron institute, 1767 . • '. ' 

Huron, Ohio, 964 1578 1866 

Huron st., 875 1932 

Hurst, Josiah, 461 

Hurst, Lucy E., 461 

Hussey, R., 934 

Hutchinson and Perry, 1703 

Hutchinson, S. R., 2104 2122 

Hutchinson, Samuel R., 1703 

Illinois, 32 35 234 285 286 1705 
ILLINOIS (ship), 2126 
Illinois river, 1567 
*Immigration &amp; Emigration, 814 815 



424 

INDEX 1845 

"I'm Saddest When I sing" (poem), 1290 

"Impromptu" (poem), 1271 

*Incorporations &amp; Partnerships, 816-834 . ., 

Independence, Missouri, 33 34 

Independence, Ohio, 1537 1727 

Indiana, 296 956 1417 1553 1705 

INDIANA (ship), 1633 1834 1849 2126 

Indianapolis, Ind., 953 

♦Indians, 835-838 

Infirmary boarding house, 982 

Inglehart, Joel, 276 1445 1497 

Ingraham. See Standart, Ingraham and Company 

Ingraham, T., 174 816 2047 2048 

Ingham, A., 1775 

*Insanity. See Mental Diseases 

♦Insects, 839 

♦Insurance, 840-854 

♦Intoxication, 855 856 

Inverness, Scotland, 468 

Iowa, 2065 

IOWA GAZETTE (newspaper), 2065 

Ireland, 893 

♦Iron &amp; Steel, 857-862 

Irving, Washington, 175 

Isle of Man, 473 

♦Islands, 863 

Ithaca, N. Y., 608 

"I've met Her" (poem), 1268 

Ives, Samuel, 313 1334 

Jackson, Andrew, 467 761 1034 1499 1519 1522 1523 

Jackson, Harris, 537 

Jackson, Juliet A., 963 

Jackson, Morris, 552 963 

Jackson, Sarah E., 964 

Jackson, T., 964 

♦Jails. See Penal &amp; Corrective Institutions 

JAMAICA, ITS PAST AND PRESENT STATE (book), 1884 

James, G. P. R., 168 

James, James £., 599 1334 

Jayne's expectorant, 514 

Jefferson county, N. Y., 475 

Jefferson county, Ohio, 1144 

Jefferson House, 1906 

Jefferson, Thomas, 1881 

Jenkin's, J. F., 1261 

♦Jewelry &amp; Jewelers, 864-870 

Jobbing House saloon, 665 

Johnson's block, 203 740 1706 

Johnson, Henry H., 365 

Johnson, L., 806 



425 

INDEX 1845 

JOHNSON'S LECTURES (book), 165 

Johnson, Levi, 1923 

Johnson, M., 534 542 

Johnson's run, 448 

Johnson, Walter R., 357 

Jones. See Standart, Jones, and Company 

Jones, D., 940 

Jones (D.) and Company, 1216 

Jones, C. W., 604 1807 1808 1837-1839 -"' 

Jones, John, 475 1145 1489 1740 

Jones, Mary C, 972 

Jones, P., 432 972 

Jones tavern, 1936 

Jones, T. M., 1835 

Jones, Theodore, 958 

Jones, Thomas and Sons, 959 

"Jowler" (poem), 1322 

Jov, N. H., 1727 

•Judiciary, 874 ' 

JULIA PALMhR (ship), 2126 

June and Turner, 302 303 

Kalamazoo, Mich., 1819 

Kale. Robert, 21 

Kale, Thomas, 21 

Kalida VENTURE (newspaper), 1391 

Kanawha river, 647 

Kane, John K., 1510 

Kelley. See Bolton and Kelley 

Kelley, Alfred, 1033 1954 

Kelley, Irad, 195 1335 1566 1650 1704 1927 

Kelley, James H., 353 522 530 533 599 720 763 917 

Kelley, Madison, 312 1356 1752 1920 1921 

Kelley, Moses, 118 137 596 655 1386 1389 1486 1747 

Kelley, S. D., 2023 

Kelley, Thomas M., 874 

Kellogg's block, 188 521 

Kelly, Abby, 896 1883 1886 1887 

Kelsey, L. A., 1055 1056 1152 1160 

Kendall's store, 558 

Kennedy, John P., 1511 

KENT (ship), 11 1853 

K^^ntucky, 7 49 766 956 1247 1419 1553 1877 1878 1889 1890 1893 1894 1899 

2097 
KENWICK'S AMERICAN ORCHARDIST (book), 771 
Keppler, Frederick A., 493 2052 
Kercheval, R., 1175 
Kidd, William, 1905 
Kidney, James, 102 
Killaly, R. H., 1737 



426 

INDEX 1845 

Killbuck river, 1609 1628 

Kimball, A., 1662 

Kimball, Alvin, 1655 1662 

Kimball (J. F. ) and Company, 1553 

Kimberly and Company, 1828 

King, Jonas, 1254 

King, Rufus, 1136 1178 

King, Thomas Butler, 554 

Kingsbury and Bingham, 561 1664 

Kingsbury, H., 1975 

Kingsbury, Harmon, 377 1662 

Kingsbury run, 1640 

Kingsley, George T., 1207 1275 

Kingsley, H. C, 81 1041 1624 

Kingston, Ontario, 1735 1866 1867 

Kinne, Davis, and Company, 2118 

Kinsman, Ohio, 1724 

Kinsman st., 487 488 491 492 698 948 1213 1640 1652 1658 

Kirkland, J. F., 735 

Kirkland, J. T., 735 737 1673 

Kirkland (J. T.) and Company, 726 734 

Kirtland, Jared P., 17 18 82 771-773 780 785 788 792 1000 1004 1041 

1207 1230 1234 1791 
Kirtland, Ohio, 559 560 1786 
Klemm. See Wolson, Klemm and Company 
Knapp, M., 1391 

KNICKERBOCKER SKETCH BOOK, THE (book), 175 
Knox county, Ohio, 1430 1572 1644 

*Labor. See Capital &amp; Labor 

Lacey, E. H., 998 

Lachine, Canada, 31 

Lacy, William, 617 

Ladies Benevolent society, 300 ■ 

Ladies' Foreign Missionary society, 266 

LADIES NATIONAL (periodical), 1226 

Ladies Sewing society, 283 

Lafayette, Ind., 365 961 

Lagougue, W. E., 103 

Lagougue, W. V., 103 

Lagogue. William, 438 

Lake Champlain, 860 

Lake county, Ohio, 157 909 1401 1537 

Lake Erie, 448 1119 1571 1589 1591 1630-1632 1824 1841 1861 

Lake Huron, 648 1591 1840 

Lake, J. E., 80 545 

Lake (J. S. ) and Company, 189 

Lake, Joseph S., 141 142 

Lake Michigan, 1581 

Lake st,, 758 762 764 1653 1923 

Lake Superior, 192-194 1463 1507 1848 1854 1873 



427 
INDEX 1845 



Laman. J. J., 1784 

Lamb and Dwight, 251 

Lamb, Daniel H., 251 

Lancaster. Pa., 37 410 856 

*Land. See Real Estate 

Langdon, James, 277 

*Language &amp; Linguists, 875 . . 

*Larcenies. See Crime &amp; Criminals i. 

Latham, Elias, 967 

Latham, Sarah T., 967 

*Latin America, 876 

Lawrence, Albert G., 1015 1328 1347 1348 1613 1653 

Lawrence, W. A., 600 

Lawrence, W. C, 607-609 

Lawrence, W. E., 593 758 

Lawrence and Wright, 853 

*Laws. See Politics &amp; Government; specific subject of laws 

♦Leases &amp; Rentals, 877-879 

*Leather &amp; Tanning Industry, 880 881 

Leavitt, H. H., 2041 

♦Lectures &amp; speeches, 882-908 

Lee, Thomas, 1971 

*Legal Profession, 909-927 

Lehigh county, Pa., 1036

Lehman, A., 276 

Leipzig, Saxony, 517 •, • 

Leland and Ballou, 458 

Leland block, 94 

Leland, J. M., 1055 1066 1067 

Leland, W. W. , 529 966 2100 

Lemen, William, 657 658 :.[:,. 

Lender, C. F., 599 615 

Leonard. H. L. W. , 1719 

Leroy, N. Y., 1253 ;!-,-; •:, : 

Levy, David, 1431 

Lewis, W. B., 1499 1501 

LEXINGTON (ship), 838 1830 

Lexington ENQUIRER (newspaper), 1024 

Lexington, Ky., 1137 1188 1877 1889-1893 1895 1896 1899 

Liberty hall, 1338 1433 2040 

*Libel &amp; Slander, 928-931 

Liberty party, 1343 1395 1432-1436 

♦Libraries &amp; Librarians, 932 933 

Licking county, Ohio, 37 2143 

*Life Insurance. See Insurance • ; 

♦Lighthouses, 934 

LIGHT SHIP (periodical), 933 

Lighthouse, 206 658 724 2115 

LINDLEY'S PRINCIPLES OF HORTICULTURE (book), 771 

"Lines" (poem), 1307 

♦Liquors, Alcoholic. See Alcoholic Liquors 



428 

INDEX 1845 

Little Yellow creek, 1640 

Liverpool, England, 237 1850 1864 1865 

*Live Stock, 935-S40 

Livingston, Mary, 1022 

Lloyd, A. M., 1919 

Lockwood, Levi, 805 

Lockwood, Samuel, 805 

Locofocos. See Democratic party 

Logan, B., 413 

LONDON (ship), 11 1853 

London, Ontario, 1734 1737 

London, England, 92 852 

London TIMES (newspaper), 1865 

London WORLD (newspaper), 1172 

"Lovely House, The" (poem), 1293 

Long, Aaron, 444 

Long, David, 1740 

Long, John, 78 79 444 

Long, Lucy, 563 

Long Point, Ontario, 1734 1869 

Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, 1946 

Loomis (A.) and Company, 2099 

Loomis, Sherman, 1726 

Lorain county, Ohio, 119 909 1149 1401 1537 1572 1728 

Lorain, Ohio, 43 

Lord. See Barler and Lord 

Lord, R., 559 

Lord, Mrs., R., 792 

Losey, D., 805 

*Lost &amp; Found, 941-951 

"Lost Child, The" (poem), 1316 

*Lotteries. See Gambling &amp; Lotteries 

Loudon, James, 1958 

Loudonville, Ohio, 1577 1638 1641 

Louisiana, 65 

Louisville JOURNAL (newspaper), 86 557 749 1417 1438 1877 

Louisville, Ky., 802 1221 1878 1889 

LOVE &amp; DUTY (book), 167 

Lovejoy, E., 1896 ■.-.:■ • ■ . . - 

LOVE MATCH, THE (book), 182' 

Lover, Sam, 1305 

LOVER TO LEND (play), 2043 

Lower Sandusky, Ohio, 1626 

Lowman, A. M., 632 

Lucas county, Ohio, 1401 

LUCILLE (play), 2046 

LUCK IN A NAME (play), 2043 

Luty, Joseph, 21 J ' „ 

♦Lynching, 952 953

Lynde and Castle, 102 • . : 

Lynde, G. W., 312 



429 
INDEX 1845 

Lyman, G. W., 424 

Lyon. See Hewitt and Lyon 

Lyon, D. S., 1527 

Lyon, R. T., 1454 1752 

Lyon, John E., 938 

McArthur, Duncan, 1034 

McCardle, W. H., 930 

Macauley, Thomas B., 178 

McCleland (J.J and Brothers, 819 

McCleland, James, 819 

McCleland, John, 819 

McCleland, William, 819 

McCollom, J., 307 

McCook, George, 1585 

McCurdy, John G., 1328 

McDole. See Russell and McDole 

MacDonald, Etienne, 2068 

McDowell, J., 1990 1992 1994 1995 1997 2001 2005 2010 2012 2022 

McElrath. See Greely and McElrath 

McGuffey, W. H., 1743 

Mcllrath, Thomas, 778 

Mcintosh, A., 677 678 1230 1393 

Mcintosh and Company, 712 713 792 

Mcintosh and Company's Periodical catalogue, 775 

*Machinery, 954 

Mackenzie (C. S.) and Company, 393 511 

Mackenzie and Haskell, 394 515 519 1699 

MACKENZIE'S BOOK (book), 183 

Mackenzie's Tonic febrifuge, 515 

Mackinaw, 1819 

McLain, T. J., 1522 

McLeod, Donald, 1251 

McKibben, John, 2001 

McKinstry, Thomas, 324 417 431 1339 

McNulty, Caleb J., 1430 1484 1485 1487 

Mad River and Lake Erie railroad, 1568 1571 1586 1626 

Madison, James, 1531 

*Magazines. See Periodical Publications 

Mahoney, William, 438 

*Mail. See Postal Service 

Maine, 766 1425 

Maltby. See Holt and Maltby ' ' 

Maltby, Benjamin K., 267 1021 1127 

Mansfield, E. D., 335 

Mansfield JEFFERSONIAN (newspaper), 1638 

Mansfield, Ohio, 377 1564 1566 1568-1570 1572 1578 1590 1638 1639 1641 

1642 
Mansion House, 243 1113 
Maplebeck, John, 2013 2022 
*Maps &amp; Map Making, 955 956 



430 

INDEX 1845 

♦Marble &amp; Stone, 957-959 

March, Francis, 6 

Marcv, William L., 147G 

Marietta, Ohio, 773 785 788 

Marion county, Ohio, 455 1572 

Marion, Ohio, 270 1595 

*Markets &amp; Marketing, 960 

Marks, Samuel, 964 

*Marriage &amp; Marriages, 961-975 

Marseilles, Peter, 822 :' 

Mars, E., 636 

Marsh, George P., 1255 

Marshall, George F., 654 1041 

Marshall, Thomas F., 1181 1893-1895 1898 

Martha Washington and Dorcas society, 1206 1209 

Martineau, Harriet, 1013 

"Mary Or The Blighted Heart" (poem), 1172 

Maryland, 52 226 766 1125 1426 1482 1511 1882 

Mason and Tuttle, 1138 . , ; ■,■ 

Mason, Samson, 1466 

Massachusetts, 39 765 766 1153 1184 1252 1427 1428 1472 1482 

Massillon GAZETTE (newspaper), 1176 1405 1619 

Massillon, Ohio, 1609 1619 1627 1628 1728 

Mastick, E. B., 1231 

Matamoras, Mexico, 66 ■ ,• 

♦Mathematics, 976-977 

Mather, Samuel L., 77 278 912 1328 . 

Mathew, Theobald, 1974 ; 

Mathews, L. D., 840 879 

Mathews, Rodney, 962 

Matthews, I. 0., 1804 

Matthews, L. 0., 313 1334 1341 

Maumee, Ohio, 1715 

Maumee river, 1578 1626 1715 

May, Thomas P., 122 623 1352 1389 

Mayngrd and Noye, 191 ; ,■ ■ 

Mayfield, Ohio, 638 1351-1537 1663 1724 ,..._. 

Maysville, Ky., 1890 

Maysville EAGLE fnewspaper), 2027 ,, . 

Meadville, Pa., 361 

*Meat, 978 979 

Mechanic's block, 1657 

Medary, Snmuel, 148 1140 1153 1156 1166 1169 1184 1437 1455 1494 

♦Medical Profession, 980-1006 

♦Medicine &amp; Surgery, 1007-1011 

Medina county, Ohio, 119 1401 1446 1537 1572 1725 1737 

Medina and Cuyahoga Plank Road co., 1725 

Medina, Ohio, 1628 1741 2084 

Medina WHIG (newspaper), 737 1407 

Medill, William, 1494 

MEMOIR OF THE REV. GEORGE BEECHER (book), 171 



431 

INDEX 1845 

Memphis, Tenn., 371 1519 1624 

Mendenhall, Cyrus, 192 

*Men's Wear. See Clothing Trade 

*Mental Diseases, 1012 

Mercantile exchange, 532 , •, •,.•■■, -. 

Mercer county, Ohio, 1128 

MERCHANT (ship), 1848 

Merchant, Ahaz, 1386 1389 2023 

Merchant, Frederick Judson, 961 

Merchant's exchange, 84 540 543 851 915 918 919 1027 1163 1164 1261 

1659 1704 1708 2053 
Merchant's hotel, 616 1015 1094 1909 
Merchant's Transportation co., 1835 1875 
Merrick, E. G., 2114 
Merrick, M., 2114 
MERRIMACK (ship), 101 

Merwin, George B., 200 415 780 782 797 923 
Merwin, Mrs. George B., 792 
Merwin St., 717 722 739 861 862 945 954 1640 1696 1697 1800 2066 2108 

2130 2134 
Merwin Square, 853 1653 
*Mesmerism, 1013 
Methodist Episcopal church, 361 475 897 898 907 994 1127 1365 1745 1762 

1768 1886 1887 1975 1976 2005 2010-2012 2014 2034 
Mexican war, 1016 1439 

Mexico, 34 51 53 57 58 61 70-72 74 548 876 1017 1126 1241 1455 
Mexico City, Mexico, 1018 
Meyer, William, 1049 1902 
Miami canal, 587 
Miami Extension canal, 1586 
Miami river, 1636 
Miami st., 1652 
Michigan, 147 476 1474 1578 
MICHIGAN (ship), 2062 
Michigan City, Ind., 1630 1631 

Middle St., 1657 , . 

Middlefield, Ohio, 277 
Middlesburgh, Ohio, 968 
Milan, Ohio, 1734 1767 

Milan and Richland Plank Road Company, 1734 
Milan TRIBUNE (newspaper), 1735 
Miles, E., 1524 

Miles, S., 295 -.„-, , . 

■^Militia, 1014-1017 
Milford, William, 137 1690 1709 
Milford, Mrs. William, 792 
Mill creek, 1640 
Mills, John, 435 
Millard, Lucy F., 974 

Millard, Royal, 974 , 

Miller, J. B., 277 



432 

INDEX 1845 

Miller, John, 1719 

Miller, M., 1975 

Miller, M. W., 2013 2019 

Miller's block, 558 957 982 

Millersburg and Wooster Plank Road co., 1730 1747 

Millet, N., 921 

Milwaukie DAILY GAZETTE (newspaper), 1186-1190 

Milwaukie DAILY SENTINEL (newspaper), 508 1178 

Milwaukee, Wis., 1819 

*Mining &amp; Minerals, 1018 1019 

*Missing Persons, 1020-1022 

Mississippi, 1422 1502 1888 

MISSISSIPPI (ship), 73 

MISSISSIPPIAN (newspaper), 1941 

Mississippi river, 68 213 236 835 1595 1631 1969 

Missouri, 61 749 

MISSOURI (ship), 1802 

Mitchell, J., 599 615 

MOBILE (ship), 222 

Mobile TRIBUNE (newspaper), 73 

*Mobs &amp; Riots, 1023-1025 

Mollen, C, 694 

*Money, 1026-1038 ■ ' -^ ' . : &gt; • . :&gt; : :. 

Monroe, James, 1437 

Monroeville, Ohio, 1587 1723 

Montevido, 670 ' '' ' ' • ■ ■ 

MONTEZUMA THE SERF (book), 174 

Montreal, Canada, 25 237 585 669 1025 1580 
Montreal COURIER (newspaper), 31 

Moore. See Neil, Moore, and Company 

Moore, H., 420 

Moore (H. ) and Company, 730 731 746 1674 

Morgan (E. P.) and Company, 528 544 1698 

Morgan, J. A., 921 

Morgan, William, 1854 

Morison (D.) and Company, 2136 

Mormon church, 1442 

Morrison, David, 468 

Morrison, Margaret, 468 

Morrow, Jeremiah, 1034

Morse, C, 957 

Morse, Samuel, 337 

Morse, Samuel F. B., 1963 1966 1967 

Morse, T. W., 349 350 

Morse's Cerographic maps, 956 

MORSE'S UNIVERSAL ATLAS (book), 955 

Moses. See Sanford and Moses 

Mould, B. and E., 1697 

Mould, B. K., 829 

Mould, E. C, 829 

Mould, H., 829 1044 



433 

INDEX 1845 

Mould (H.) and Sons, 25 665 829 1684 

MOUNT SOREL (book), 167 

Mt. Vernon. Ohio, 150 377 1430 1577 1578 1609 1634 1639 1641 1644 

Mt. Vernon TIMES (newspaper), 1644 

"Mountaineer's Invitation" (song), HOG 

Mozart, Wolfgang, 79 

Mullen, Christopher, 1330 

Munson, William, 884 

Murfey. See Clark and Murfey 

Murrey, Elijah, 974 

♦Museums &amp; Galleries, 1039-1047 

♦Music, 1048-1112 

*Musical Instruments, 1113-1118 

"My Childhood's Prayer" (poem), 1279 

"My Last Request" (poemj, 1284 

Naples, Italy, 1483 

Nashville REPUBLICAN BANNER (newspaper) 

Nashville, Tenn. , 467 1418 1421 

Nashville UNION (newspaper), 1420 1480 1481 1496 1946 1947 

NATIONAL MAGAZINE, 193 359 754 1235 1248 

NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE (periodical), 1240 

*Naturai History. See Museums &amp; Galleries 

'"Natural Phenomena, 1119 . .; ' 

*Naturalization. See Citizenship 

NATURE AND PHILOSOPHY (play), 2044 

*Negroes, 1120-1131 

Neil, Moore, and Company, 232 

Neil, William, 1613 

Neptune Engine Company No. 2, 762 

NEVILLES OF GARRETSTOWN, THE (book), 174 

Newark, Ohio, 1578 

Newburgh, Ohio, 21 267 462 471 473 579 1167 1524 1537 1640 1727 1784 

1971 
New Castle, Pa., 267 

New Connecticut. See Western Reserve : , : . 

New England House, 862 

New Hampshire, 766 1433 1795 -■■. . ,: . 

New Haven, Conn., 462 1965 
New Haven HERALD (newspaper), 259 
New Jerusalem, 622 
New Jersey, 766 
New London, Conn., 1551 
Newman, James M., 992 
New Orleans BULLETIN (newspaper), 1888 
New Orleans JEFFERSONIAN REPUBLICAN (newspaper), 40 
New Orleans, La., 57 62 68 263 428 715 1472 1868 2042 2060 
New Orleans PICAYUNE (newspaper), 59 
New Orleans TROPIC (newspaper), 930 
♦Newspapers, 1132-1202 
Newton, Isaac, 391 
Newton Darling's Warranted Grass and Corn scythes, 730 



434 

INDEX 1845 

New York AMERICAN (newspaper), 1136 

New York City, 26 116 184 336 432 434 447 548 647 674 708 715 739 754 
814 846-849 852 853 881 957 984 1053 1054 1084 1085 1138 1151 1239 
1245 1369 1467 1474 1476 1590 1666 1667 1790 1865 1906 1965 2081 
' 2100 2106 2118 2139 2188 

New York COURIER AND ENQUIRER (newspaper), 1136 1188 1247 

New York and Erie railroad, 1615 1836 

New York EVENING POST (newspaper), 672 1165 1504 1944 

New York EXPRESS (newspaper), 555 1081 2064 

New York HERALD (newspaper), 1158 1945 . . 

New York JOURNAL OF COMMERCE (newspaper), 1603 

New York MIRROR (newspaper), 1165 1173 

New York NEWS (ne\fspaper), 149 152 1467 

New York state, 10 42 230 235 409 426 459 706 931 1247 1432 1439 1794 
1944 

New York TRIBUNE (newspaper), 556 1134 1239 1893 

New York and Toledo line, 1810 

New York TRUE SUN (newspaper), 913 2055 2140 

Ney, Michel, 2068 

Niagara Falls, 1055 1056 

Nickerson, D., 1867 1975 . " ■ '. ' 

NICHOLAS BIDDLE (ship), 1869 : . . ,. ■ ■ ' 

Nichols, E. T., 348 1678

Niles, John M., 1518 

Noble alley, 635

Noble, Stephen I., 917 1345 

Nootka, 287. See also Vancouver island 

*Normal Schools. See Education - Normal schools 

North Carolina, 52 554 1125 1897 

North Dover, Ohio, 1537 

North Royalton, Ohio, 1537 

Northampton GAZETTE (newspaper), 18 

Norton, Margaret, 581 ■ ' ,' 

North Western Insurance co., 1867 

Norton, M. F., 1971 

Norwalk EXPERIMENT (newspaper), 1183 

Norwalk, Ohio, 417 

Norwalk REFLECTOR (newspaper), 1036 

Nott (S. H.) and Sisters, 1082 

Noye. See M lynard and Noye 

Nye, Wetherly, 1727 

Oberlin, Ohio, 507 

OBERLIN UNMASKED (book), 673 

"Ocean Bird, The" (poem), 1299 

ODD FELLOW (ship), 1805 1806 

ODD FELLOWS OFFERING, THE (periodical), 1226 

Odell, Daniel, 637 826 

Odell (Daniel) and Company, 826 

Odell, Frederick, 637 



435 

INDEX 1845 

Ogedensburg, N. Y., 372 

Ogram, J. W. , 820 

Ohio, 149 1553 1705 

Ohio board of bank commissioners, 143 

Ohio board of agriculture, 15 16 17 22 23 

Ohio board of public works, 227 228 356 1461 1462 1626 1629 1642 

Ohio canal, 198 199 208 214 356 493 702 1572 1578 1598 1657 1727 1812 

1835 2110 
Ohio Citv exchange, 1983 
Ohio City, Ohio, 218 270 283 284 421 468 580 598 605 679 705 963 964 

1038 1537 1646 1654 1908 1985 1986 2064 
Ohio constitution, 1130 ' 

OHIO CULTIVATOR (newspaper), 702 743-745
Ohio deaf and dumb asylum, 459 900 
Ohio legislature, 15 16 21 23 118 120-124 126-128 130 132-134 155 449 

502 594 654 655 656 987 989 1019 1124 1129 1131 1207 1244 1352 1374 

1377 1380 13:"5 1387 1394 1401 1402 1455 1456 1458 1460-1462 1557 

1559-15S2 1579 1626 1718 1719 1725 1730 1732 1746 1747 1951 1960- 

1962 1991 2008 2033 
Ohio militia, 1016 1017 
Ohio penientiary, 437 438 449 1219 1220 

Ohio Railroad co., 1626 1629 .'. ; 

Ohio river, 68 228 378 380 1558 1582 1589 1628 1634 " , &gt; 
OHIO STAR (newspaper), 1144 1195 
Ohio State bank, 117 1033 1037 
OHIO STATE JOURNAL (newspaper), 49 117 138 1023 1180 1244 1394 1403 

1410 1411 1462 1614 1957 
OHIO STATESMAN (newspaper), 131 148 152 1017 1140 1153 1156 1161 1162 

1166 1169 1183 1184 1396 1406 1408 1451 1459 1462 1464 1466 1468 

1563 
Ohio supreme court, 406 496 921 923 924 
OHIO UNIVERSALIST (newspaper), 297 

OHIO UNIVERSALIST AND LITERARY COMPANION (newspaper), 1133 
*Oil, 1203 1204 
Old Hunkers, 1439 
Old Scipio, N. Y., 1021 
"Old Year, The" (poem), 1325 

"Old Dan Tucker" (song), 570 '.;■ 

Olean, N. Y., 961 

Olmstead, Ohio, 1537

Onderdonk, B. T., 280 
"One Hundred" (song), 79 
Onandaga county, N. Y., 470 

Ontario st., 341 762 941 982 1649 1769 1931 1933 
O'Reilley, Henry, 1964 
Orange lane, 1022 10C8 
Orange, Ohio, 465 470 2023 
Orange village, 1638 

Oregon, 29-32 35-38 52 186 305 1496 1512 1517 1865 
OREGON (ship), 12 648 1808 1828 1846 1847 
Oregon territory, 1437 



436 

INDEX 1845 

♦Organizations, 1205-1209 

Orphean family, 1098-1100 1101 1103 1105 1106 

Osborn, R. H., 559 

Osnaburgh, Ohio, 1728 

Oswego, N. Y., 230 372 847 1854 1873 

Otterman, James, 972 

Otis, W. A., 159 2095 

Otis (W. A.) and Company, 859 2098 2124 

Otis, William A., 1389 

Overrocker, G., 312 

Oviatt, B., 748 

OWAUNTAH (ship), 1817 

Owen, Robert Dale, 1417 1666 1667 

♦Packing Industry, 1210-1214 

Paddock, R. H., 991 1003 

Painesville, Ohio, 957 

Painesville TELEGRAPH (newspaper), 1185 

♦Paints &amp; Varnishes, 1215-1218 

Pakenham, Edward, 38 

Palmer, J. B., 705 

Palmer, V. B., 1138 

Parcells, P., 1175 

*Pardons. See Commutations &amp; Pardons 

Pardee, Aaron, 1726 

Paredes, Mariano, 70 

Paris, France, 582 590 

Parish, Daniel, 1931 

Parker, L. D., 1264 

Parkersburgh, Va., 402 

Parks. See Cross and Parks 

Parks, Eber N., 1328 1696 

Parks (E. N. ) and Company, 232 2121 

Parks, Robert, 916 1497 

PARLEY'S CABINET-LIBRARY (book), 176 

Parley, Peter, 1789. See also Goodrich, S. C. 

Parma, Ohio, 1537 1721 1722 1971 

"Parody on Burn's 'Bonny Doon'" (poem), 1286 

Parrish, 11. L., 270 

♦Partnerships. See Incorporations &amp; Partnerships 

Parvin, B., 1096 1097 

♦Patent Medicine. See Drugs &amp; Druggists 

PATHFINDER (book), 175 

Patterson, Job G., 1520 

Patrick, Charles, 137 

Pavilion, N. Y., 1253 

Payne, H. B., 141 1613 

Payne, Willson and Wade, 909 

Pease and Allen, 221 1834 2120 

Pechin, D., 277 

Peck, Sarah, 499 



437 
INDEX 1845 

Peet, Elijah, 246 248 1548 

♦Penal &amp; Corrective Institutions, 1219-1222 

Pensacola, Fla., 73 

Pennsylvania, 223 224 228 231 356 383 459 634 766 1036 1096 1449 1510 

1616 1626 1724 1944 
PERFECTION (play), 2044 
♦Periodical Publications, 1223-1248 
Perkins, S., 2142 
Perkins, William L., 124 1491 
Perry, John, 1497 
Perry. See Hutchinson and Perry 
Perry, Ashbel M., 1703 
Perrysburgh, Ohio, 1715 1803 1832 
Perry st., 1664 

*Persons &amp; Personages, 1249-1260 
Petrie, Henry, 817 951 1909 
Petrie, Stephen L., 816 826 
Pheatt, I. T., 1849 

PHELIM O'TOOLE'S COURTSHIP (book), 165 
Phelps, Alfred, 1374 
Philadelphia GAZETTE (newspaper), 97 
Philadelphia, Pa., 241 514 715 1085 1241 1380 1598 1865 
Phillippo. James M., 1884 
Phillips, Charles, 463 
Phillips, J. H., 720 1328 
Phillips, J. S., 463 

PHILOSOPHY OF THE PLAN OF SALVATION (book), 170 
Philpot and Camp, 825 
Philpot, William, 825 

PHIL PURCEL, AND OTHER TALES OF IRELAND (book), 185 
Phipps, Paris M., 1330 

PHOENIX (ship), 604 1833 1837-1839 1844 1846 1851 1871 
Phoenix bank, 674 

Phoenix building, 393 394 511 515 519 665 910 1699 
Phoenix Engine Company No. 4, 762 1833 1837-1839 
Phoenix, J. Phillips, 372 
♦Photography, 1261-1266 

PICTORIAL SPELLING BOOK, THE (book), 1790 
"Picture, A" (poem), 1288 
Pierce, George E., 364 563 993 995 996 
Pittsburgh AMERICAN (newspaper), 627 
Pittsburgh CHRONICLE (newspaper), 929 

Pittsburgh DAILY COMMERCIAL JOURNAL (newspaper), 1154 
Pittsburgh GAZETTE (newspaper), 1598 
Pittsburgh House, 463 637 976 
Pittsburgh, Pa., 220 224 225 232 289 370 374 462 627 634 717 802 857 

1120 1154 1520 15S6 1598 1616 1868 1869 1875 1964 2089 2090 2092-2096 
Pittsburgh rd., 714 
Pittsburgh st., 479 637 1640 
Pittsfield, Mass., 20 
Pittsford, N. Y., 295 



438

INDEX 1845 

Plainfield, N. J., 1036 

Plainfield, Conn., 1254

Plattsburgh, N. Y., 1939 

Plymouth; Ohio, 1595 ;:' :&gt;' ;■";:■:. ■}■■: 

♦Poetry &amp; Poets, 1267-1325 

Poindexter, George, 1476 

Points, The, 2001 

Point Coupee, 439 

*Poisoning, 1326 

Poland, 1126 

Polk, James K., 46 151 402 671 672 1145 1154 1183 1195 1196 1237 1342 
1421 1429 1445 1448 1450 1455 1459 1463 1480 1481 1488-1490 1495 
1498 1499 1501 1504-1506 1508-1511 1517 1523 1534 1944 1947 1949 
1950 2062 

Polk, W. H., 1483 

*Police. See City Government; Crime &amp; Criminals 

*Political Campaigns &amp; Elections, 1327-1431 

Political Parties, 1432-1453 

*Politics &amp; Government, 1454-1519 

Pollack. Robert H., 268 

Pomeroy. See IVoolson and Pomeroy 

Pomeroy, George Q., 674 1907 

Pontusac, 111., 286 

Pool, Samuel, 1357 

*Population. See Census &amp; Population 

Portage. Ohio, 277 

Port Colborne, Ontario, 1824 

Portage county, Ohio, 507 1211 1393 1401 1537 

Port Dover, Canada, 1737 

Porter, David R., 383 

Porter, W., 586 

Porter, Wells, 1381 

Porto Rico, 725 

Port Sarnia, Ontario, 1591 

Port Stanley, Ontario, 1734 :■... 

Portsriiouth, Ohio, 2060 

Portugal, 1126 

*Post Office, 1520-1530 . ,. 

*Postal Service, 1531-1546 

Potter, E. D., 801 803 

Powell, Albert, 100 

Powell (A.) and Company, 100 

Powell, Henry, 422 .' . 

Powell, John, 479 967 

Powell, Mary, 479 

Powell, W., 1796

Powell, William, 478 

Powers, B., 1583 ... 

Powers Benjamin, 1601 

Powers and Brother, 345 

Prairie du Chien, Wis., 213 



439 

INDEX 1845 

Pratt, Woodford, and Company, 1790 

Prentiss, Cyrus, 1585 1597 1621 

Prentiss, F. J., 1356 

Prentiss, Loren, 1339 

Prentiss, S. B., 1657 

Presbyterian church, 78 79 742 765 893 907 1004 1063 1127 1130 1778 

1880 1979 1988 2035 2041 
Price, Harvey, 140 
PRINCETON (ship), 73 1803 1820 

PRINCIPLES OF THE INTERIOR OR HIDDEN LIFE (book), 171 
♦Printing &amp; Publishing, 1547-1553 
Prospect St., 300 628 762 1657 1752 1921 1928 
Prospect St. school, 1744 1750 1779 1780 1782 
PROTESTANT CHURCHMAN (periodical), 280 
Protestant Episcopal church, 963 
Proudfoot, James, 1208 
Proudfoot, John, 1983 
Providence GAZETTE (newspaper), 1475 
Providence, R. I., 384 

*Public Auctions. See Auctions &amp; Auctioneers 
*Public Squares &amp; Circles, 155&lt;-1556 

Pumroy, J. W., 1175 .. ;. 

Punderson. See Handerson and Punderson 
Putnam. See Wiley and Putnam 

Quebec, Canada, 1580 

Queenstown, 1412 

"Quench Not The Spirit" (poem), 1298 

Quincy WHIG (newspaper), 287 

Quinn, John, 1936 

Racine ADVOCATE (newspaper), 1713 

Racine, Wis., 1713 1819 

^Railroads, 1557-1644 

Ranney. H., 262 493 1335 1339 1356 1359 1363 1389 1454 

Ranney, J., 1434 

Ranney, S., 820 

Ranney (S.) and Company, 820 

Ransom, John G., 1328 

Ranson (J. G.) and Company, 2119 

Rathborne, George, 1524 

Ravenna, Ohio, 1195 1196 1565 1582 1585 1597 1621 1640 

Raymond and Clark, 334 335 527 

Raymond, Samuel, 2095 

*Real Esate, 1645-1665 

Redington, R., 173 

Reed, Alexander, 2001 

Reed, R., 1113 

Reemelin, Charles, 133 

Rees, J., 1065 

Reeve, J. C, 559 



440 

INDEX 1845 

"Reform Movements, 1666-1667 

Reid, John, 21 

Reindeer line, 1810 

♦Religion, 1668-1671 

RENDEZVOUS (play), 2046 

Rensselaer county, N; Y., 707 

RESURRECTION OF LAZARUS (painting), 87 • •• ' 

♦Retail Stores &amp; Trade, 1673-1708 

Revolutionary war, 476 762 765 

Rhode Island, 384 766 1473 

Rich's Patent Straw cutter, 747 

Richardson, Joseph, 435 

Richland county, Ohio, 37 963 1562 1572 1609 1638 

Richmond. See Cowing, Richmond, Williams, and Company 

Richmond, Thomas, 1331 1712 2095 

Richmond (T.) and Company, 840 

Richmond. Thomas, and Company, 1808 1814 2118 2134 

Richmond, Va., 407 1416 

Riddle, Robert M., 1154 

Riell, Henry E., 1158 ■ ' ■- 

Rio Brava, 70 ^- 

*Riots. See Mobs &amp; Riots 

Risely, Luke, 1654 

Ritchie and Heiss, 1146 

Ritchie, Thomas, 66 70 670 1166 1442-1444 1448 1518 

♦Rivers &amp; Harbors, 1709-1716 

Rives. See Blair and Rives 

River st., 333 344 642 719 723 978 1550 1650 1690 2099 

♦Roads &amp; Highways, 1717-1741 

ROANOKE (ship), 1857 1862 

Robenet, A., 1727 

Robertson county, Tenn., 1418 

Robertson, D. A., 1459 

Robertson, G., 92 

Robison, Robert, 1706- ■'^■•- ' ■■« "'' 

Rcby, C. C, 1834 1849 

Rochesier DAILY DEMOCRAT (newspaper), 1147 

Rochester, N. Y., 5 372 432 454 1964 

Rochester DEMOCRAT (newspaper), 1611 

Rockport, Ohio, 200 782 974 1376 1537 1973 

Rockwell school, 1327 1750-1752 1782 

Rocky river, 200 201 1623 ■ 

Rocky River seminary, 127 

Roeder, Julius, 2103 

Rogers, Ethan, 1331 

Roman Catholic church, 425 620 710 

Root, E. S., 98 102 1754 

Roscoe, Ohio, 975 

ROSE D" ALBERT (book), 168 

Rossbergh, Ohio, 410 

Rossini, Gioacchino, 1059 



441 

INDEX 1845 

Rouse, B., 256 1454 1975 

"Row, Brothers, Row" (song), 1100 

Rowland, I. S., 1186 

Royal academy, 92 

Royalton, Ohio, 805 2023 

"Ruined Castle, The" (poem), 1318 

RUINS NEAR ANCIENT TYRE (painting), 87 

Russell. C. L., 765 1717 

Russell and Crowl, 13 

Russell and McDole, 283 

Russia, 1126 1737 

Rutherford county, Tenn., 1418 

Sabin, W. H., 1719 

Sacket, A., 266 526 546 792 1030 1647 

Sackett's Harbor, 372 

Sage, William, 411 

SAILOR'S MAGAZINE, 933 

St. CLAIR (ship), 1818 

St. Clair bank, 348 

St. Clair county. 111., 35 

St. Clair, Mich., 136 1696 

St. Clair river, 1591 

St. Clair st., 614 625 628 653 660 687 712 713 762 897 941 998 1001 

1002 1656 1745 1762 1768 1771 1777 1927 1929 2010 2099 
St. Clair St. school, 810 811 1782 
St. Croix river, 213 
St. Domingo, 715 
St. John, Henry, 42 

St. John, Samuel, 882 883 885 889 890 1000 1041 1207 1230 1793 
St. John's church. See Protestant Episcopal church 
St. Lawrence and Atlantic railroad, 1580 
St. Lawrence river, 1861 
ST. LOUIS (ship), 2126 
St. Louis, Missouri, 61 
St. Louis REPUBLICAN (newspaper), 375 
St. Mary's church. See Roman Catholic church 
"St. Valentine's Day" (poem), 1278 
Salem, Ohio, 1640 
Sample, Samuel C, 1417 
SAMSON (ship), 1542 1820 
San Jacinto, Mexico, 876 
Sandusky bay, 699 1275 

Sandusky, Ohio, 1568 1671 1578 1587 1590 1603 1608 1626 1723 1781 1879 
Sandusky river, 1626 
Sandwich islands, 863 
Sanford. See Moses and Sanford 
Sanford, A. S., 599 600 605 758 762 765 
Sanford and Hayward, 187 283 562 733 
Sanford and Moses, 1803 1804 1808 1828 
Santa Anna, Antonio Lopez de, 876 1250 



442 

INDEX 1845 

Sante Fe, N. M., 61 372 

Saratoga county, N. Y., 707 . . . ■ 

Sargent. Joseph, 690-692 

SATANSTOE OR THE LITTLEPAGE MANUSCRIPTS (book), 175 

Sault St. Marie, Mich., 192 838 1814 1845 1873 

Saunders, Mrs. E., 1775 ' \ ■ ■ 

Saunders, G., 1801 ,;: " . . 

Savannah, Ga., 554 

Sawtell, Ira., 1336 

Sawtell, S. D. G., 104 

Sawyer, Noah, 1727 

Schenectady county, N. Y., 707 

Schiller, Johann, 1090 

Scholl, John, 698 

♦Schools &amp; Seminaries, 1742-1790 

Schubert, B. B., 1902 

♦Science &amp; Technology, 1791-1793 • 

SCIOTO GAZETTE (newspaper), 1175 

Scotio river, 1636 

"Scots! Wha ha, wi, Wallace bled?" (song), 570 

Scott, M. B., 122 842 845 852 1815 2117 

Scott, M. D., 216 

Scott, 0., 274 

Scovill, E., 592 -. - 

Scoville. See Hough and Scoville 

Scoville, Philo, 765 806 808 1330 1566 1621 , 

Scribner, Gary and Company, 163 818 

Scribner, G. B., 828 

Scribner (G. B. ) &amp; Company, 818 827 828 

Seaman, H., 326 . - 

Seaman and Smith, 339 

Second Presbyterian church. See Presbyterian church . 

♦Sectionalism, 1794 1795 

'Seeds &amp; Bulbs, 1796-1800 

Segur, E. M., 442 812 

Segur (E. M. ) and Company, 665 

Selover, A. A., 548 1689 

Seneca st., 483 628 632 721 951 959 993 995 1066 1653 1754 1763 1920 

Severance, Luther, 1551 

Severance, T. C, 137 139 156 161 771 2023 . ■ 

Seymour, Alexander, 122 1809 1813 1858 1975 2095 2133 

Seymour Alexander) and Company, 424 752 1820 2130 2133 . 

Sexton, Henry, 1331 

"Shades" (poem), 1282 

Sharon, Ohio, 1725 1726 

♦Shaving Equipment, 1801 

Shaw, J. M., 232 &lt; • 

SHEET ANCHOR (periodical), 933 1225 . , 

Sheldon, H. R., 997 

Sheldon, Henry Olcott, 166 

SHELDON MAGAZINE, 166 



443 

INDEX 1845 



Sheldon, R., 137 139 828 1754 

Shelly, John, 340 

Shepard, C. L., 208 

Shepard, D. A., 592 593 688 693 

Shepard (D. A. ) and Company, 208 

Shepard, E., 612 613 

Sheriff st., 1914 1921 1934 1956 

*Sheriff's Sales. See Auctions &amp; Auctioneers 

Sherman, Anthony, 638 

Sherman, Isaac, 1336 

Sherman, M. , 452 

Sherman, Solomon, 822 

Sherwin, A., 1352 1389 

♦Shipbuilding, 1802-1808 

♦Shipping &amp; Ships, 1809-1875 

♦Shipwrecks. See Accidents &amp; Disasters • Shipping 

♦Shoes. See Clothing Trade 

Sholl, William, 1328 

Shore, Emma, 500 

Shore, John, 500 

Shreve, Thomas, 1393 

Shrink, John, 1902 

Sierra Leone, 1900 

♦Signs &amp; Sign Painting, 1876 

Sigourney, L. H., 1192 

Sikes, James, 277 

Silberg, C, 1014 1903 ,-,: ^ 

Simmons, Isaac B., 337 547

Simpson, George, 31 

Simpson, I. H., 1714 ._; - 

Skidmore. S., 453 

Skinner, T. S., 1239 

Slade, Robert, 954 

Slade, William, 1425 

♦Slavery, 1877-1900 

Sloman. Anne, 1087 ^ 

Sloman, Elixabeth, 1087 

Sloman. John, 1087-1089 1091 1092 1104 1107-1109 

Slosson, F. S., 1063 

Smart, David, 1367 

Smead and Cowles, 1549 

Smead, T. H., 592 1549 

Smith. See Gorham, Aplin and Smith | . ■ ,. .,, . | ; 

Smith. See Seamen and Smith 

Smith. See Wills and Smith 

Smith, A. M. C, 843 

Smith, Allen, 94 

Smith, Alva, 618 

Smith, Anson, 2132 

Smith. B. F., 1812 

Smith (B. F.) and Company, 24 206 1812 1860 2116 



444 

INDEX 1845 



Smith, C. B., 1417 

Smith, Delazon, 673 

Smith, Drew, 1026 1031 

Smith, Erastus, 441 446 450 1339 

Smith, H. A., 742 

Smith, H. S., 1262 

Smith, Henry, 1026 1031 

Smith, Jesse, 1026 1031 

Smith (Jesse) and Company, 2114 

Smith, Jesse, and Sons, 1026 1029 1031 

Smith, John L., 307 914 2013 2018 2024 

Smith, S. M., 2041 

Smith, Sidney, 178 2021 

Smith and Stevens, 164 

Smith, W. H., 189 . .. . 

Smith, W. T., 137 

Smith, Mrs. William, 792 

Smith, William C., 1020 

Smithrick, James, 1814 

Smithsonian institute, 1791 

SMUGGLER, THE (book), 168 

Smyth, Mrs. William, 680 1243 

♦Soap, 1901 

♦Social Events, 1902-1904 

SOLDIERS RETURN (play), 2042 

Solon, Ohio, 1350 1537 2023 

"Song of the Bandman" (poem), 1269 

"Song of the Bell" (song), 1090 

Soren, George, 419 

South Carolina, 52 956 1517 1881 

Southport, W. S., 1819 

Southworth, E. A., 1331 

Spain, 1126 

Spalding, G. R., c04 305 307 308 

Spalding, James, 554 

Soang and Company, 857 862 

Spangler. See Baldwin and Spangler 

Spangler, B. L., 531 

Spangler, H. L., 551 

Spangler, M. M., 262 601 1330 1335 1339 1359 1363 

Spench, T. R., 1003 

Spencer, Benjamin, 435 

Spencer, T. P., 1196 1445 1450 1523 1804 

Spink, Cyrus, 1741 

"Spirit Song, A" (poem), 1292 

♦Spiritualism &amp; Occultism, 1905 1906 

Spring Mills, 1638 

"Spring Musings" (poem), 1289 

Springfield, Mass., 398 

Springfield, Ohio, 1570 

Springfield REPUBLICAN (newspaper), 364 



445 

INDEX 1845 

Springfield stone ware depot, 212 

Squier, E. G., 1148 1175 

Stafford, (J.) and Company, 830 2127 

Stafford, J. B., 729 

Stafford, J. R., 1653 

Stafford, Jonas, 830 2108 2127 

Stafford, Jonas and Company, 751 

Stair, J. and Son, 780 1797 1798 

Standart, Ingraham, and Company, 220 816 2125 

Standart, J. L., 1800 

Standart, Jones and Company, 1835 

Standart, N. M., 122 816 1835 

Standart, W. L., 682 1702 

Stark county, Ohio, 1391 1401 1405 

Starkweather, Samuel, 629 765 1327 1334 1341 1565 1631 1737 1920 1921 

Starr, Elisha, 1186 

*Stationers. See Bookstores &amp; Stationers 

Stearns, Samuel, 267 

Stebbins, G. L., 1883 

Stedman, B., 592 592 936 1210 1356 

*Steel. See Iron &amp; Steel ,i 

Steele, H., 1177 

Stephenson, William, 245 312 

Sterling. See Cleveland and Sterling 

Sterling, E. T., 945 1908 

Sterling, John M., 945 

Stern, L. S., 276 

Stetson, C, 1356 

Steubenville HERALD (newspaper), 1144 .; 

Steubenville, Ohio, 1404 1405 1407 1412 

Stevens. See Smith and Stevens 

Stevens, George Alexander, 1104 ,., ^ ,, , , 

Stevenson, T. H., 83-85 

Stevenson, William, 1331 

Stewart, James, 1585 1597 1621 

Stewart, S., 452 

Stimpson, S., 1266 

Stockley, John G., 877 2057 

Stockton, T. B. W., 1709 1935 

Stoddard, John, 942 1340 1342 

Stone Church. See Presbyterian church 

*Stone Industry. See Marble &amp; Stone 

Stone, Marvin E., 1719 

Stone mill, 1657 

Stone, S. S., 317 617 1015 1328 

Stone, William L., 931 

Storer, Bellamy, 1414 

Storer, S., 1971 

Stout, Charles B., 973 

*Stoves &amp; Furnaces, 1907-1911 

Stratton, D. C, 997 



446 

INDEX 1845 

Strauss, M., 278 

♦Streets, 1912-1935 

Street, Zadock, 1585 1597 

Strickland, B., 483 503 985 

Strong, G. W., 1807 

Strong, Levi, 893 ■ ' 

Strong, William, 443 1346 1527 

StrongsviUe, Ohio, 277 1527 1537 1719 1720 1937 1971 

Stuart, B., 957 

Summit BEACON (newspaper), 1144 1150. See also Akron BEACON 

Summit county, Ohio, 119 507 745 909 1211 1393 1537 1982 

♦Suicides, 1936-1939 

Superior hill, 480 

Superior lane, 333 337 661 692 717 727 730 731 748 862 1674 1814 1835 
2112 

Superior st., 25 93 104 116 187-189 203 204 217 294 325-327 329 330 332 
336 339 343 349 482-486 503 518 521 524 527-529 535 536 538 539 561 
562 621 628 686 690 711 718 732 734 762 781 806 807 843 851 870 916 
917 922 950 951 981 984 1049 1116 1118 1163 1164 1265 1659 1660 1675 
1676 1679 1681 1685 1697 1705 1708 1754 1763 1798 1907 1909 1924 
1926 1929 1933 1955 2053 2070 2100 

♦Superstition, 1940 

♦Surgery. See Medicine &amp; Surgery 

Susquehanna river, 647 

Sutherland. See Cobb, Sutherland, and Company 

Suydam, Lambert, 849 

SWALLOW (ship), 10 1814 

Swan creek, 1715 

Swedenborg, Emanuel, 899 

Swift, Henry Adoniram, 367 

Swiss Bell Ringers, 1073-1076 1078 1079 1081 1086 

S^BIL OR THE TWO NATIONS (book), 167 

Syracuse, N. Y., 470 

Tabernacle, 904 1102 

Talcott, E. B., 234 

Tammany Hall, 1479 

Tappan, Benjamin, 1791 1896 

Tappan, Eli, 1180 

♦Tariff, 1941-1950 

Tate, Robert, 21 

♦Taxation, 1951-1962 

Taylor, B. S., 994 

Taylor, Edmund, 436 

Taylor, Elisha, 137 1971 1975 

Taylor, Zachary, 65 66 1247 2059 

♦Teachers. See Schools &amp; Seminaries - Teachers 

♦Telegraph, 1963-1969 

♦Temperance, 1970-2041 

Temperance House, 466 482 621 811 1697 1939 

TEMPERANCE SAILOR (play), 2051 

Tennessee, 42 52 956 1418 1420 1421 1478 1499 1513 1897 1982 



447 
INDEX 1845 

Terrill, C, 750 

Terrill, C. and Company, 881 

*Texas. See Annexation &amp; Expansion - Texas 

Texas, 29 30 39-42 44-52 54-58 60-65 69 71 72 74 554 956 1250 1415 

1432 1437 1441 1442 1496 1498 1504 1512 1518 1794 1859 1893 1894 

1898 2059 2060 
*Text Books. See Schools &amp; Seminaries - Text Books 
"Thanksgiving" (poem), 1314 
*Theater, 2042-2051 

TRIER'S CONSULATE AND EMPIRE UNDER NAPOLEON (book), 171 
Thomas, Henry, 410 
Thomas, J., 782 
Thomas, S. C, 361 
Thompson, Jacob, 1502 
Thorman, J., 276 
"Thoughts" (poem), 1273 
Throup, David, 452 
Thurbur, Avery, and Company, 454 
Tibbits, George B., 1497 
Tibbatts, John W., 1419 
Tiffin, Edward, 1034 
Tindall, G. F., 327 
Tinker's creek, 1640 

"To A Friend in Answer to Query, 'What Is Human Life?'" (poem), 1311 
*Tobacco, 2052-2054 
"To H. E. C." (poem), 1304 
"To My Mother" (poem), 1303 
"To Roscoe" (poem), 1301 
Tod, David, 1406 1446 1463 

Toledo BLADE (newspaper), 236 369 737 1151 1153 
Toledo, Ohio, 236 803 1056 1151 1567 1618 1620 1622 1624 1625 1628 

1630 1631 1633 1636 1834 1841 1856 
Topping, Nancy, 3 
Toronto, Ontario, 1591 1735 
Towl, Moses, 1721 
Towns, Samuel, 21 
Townsend, H. G., 1331 
Tracy, C. E., 1654 

TRAITS AND STORIES OF THE IRISH PEASANTRY (book), 165 
*Transportation. See Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Railroads; Roads &amp; Highways; Shipbuilding; Shipping &amp; Ships 
♦Travel, 2055 2056 ■ . 

Treat, S. M., 365 
Treat, S. W., 921 1356 
Treat, Samuel Worchester, 367 

♦Trespassing, 2057

Trimble, William P., 558 

Trowbridge, Amasa, 1003 ■ .- , 

TROY (ship), 308 
Troy and Michigan line, 1809 1813 
Troy, N. Y., 427 860 



448 

INDEX 1845 

Troy and Ohio line, 1812 
Troy WHIG (newspaper), 1255 

TRUE AMERICAN (newspaper), 1137 1229 1231 1889 1891 1892-1895 1899 
Trumbull county, Ohio, 1401 1446 1724 
"Trumpet's Loud Clangor, The" (music), 79 
Tucker, Levi, 273 

Tullidge, Henry, 973 " . 

Turner. See June and Turner 
Turner, A., 1805 1806 
Turner, L. C, 765 1624 1754 
Turner, Mary J., 1775 
Turner, S., 1805 1806 
Turney, Hopkins L., 1513 
Tuttle. See Mason and Tuttle 

Tuttle, Hiram, 438 . • 

"'Twas Evening the Zephyrs" (poem), 1296 

Tyler, John, 51 184 1145 1483 1486 1489 1490 1493 1494 1498 1500 1505 
1506 1508 1710 1868 

Union lane, 639 730 731 1674 .":..... - 

UNITED STATES (ship), 643 1132 1536 1539 1816 1830 

*United States Army, 2058-2060 

United States Congress, 38 40 42 47 553 554 801 803 1174 1247 1252 1416 

1419 1426 1431 1447 1485 1496 1504 1512 1516 1517 1532 1534 1546 

1551 1581 1710 1716 1791 1821 1893 1963 2061 2065 
United States constitution, 43 45 836 1130 1441 1794 1886 1887 
United States Custom House, Cleveland, Ohio, 722 862 
United States House of Representatives, 41-43 45-54 1484 1488 1502 1512 

1514 1519 1533 1534 1795 1950 
UNITED STATES JOURNAL (newspaper), 238 1237 
United States Marine hospital, 380 
•United States Navy, 2061-2064 
United States Navy, 749 1041 

United States Post Office, Cleveland, Ohio, 2015 
United States Senate, 41 42 44 45 54 309 459 1252 1429 1482 1488 1491 

1512 1513 1519 1531-1534 1791 1794 1950 • . 

United States Supreme Court, 407 1791 
*United States Territories &amp; Possessions, 2065 
Upham, Thomas C, 171 ~ 
♦Upholstering, 2066 

Upson (D.) and Company, 360 - ■- ■ 

Upson, W. H., 921 
Utica, N. Y., 123 746 
Utter, Dowty, 1406 1446 

Valletta, C. A., 2005 2011 2013 .... 

Van Buren, John, 1476 

Van Buren, Martin, 183 1180 1444 1476 1522 1523 1575 . ■ .. '■ - 

Vance, Joseph, 1034 '■'■■: 

Vancouver island, 287 '■■.■•■ ' • , . ' • ■ 

Van Horn, Jon. See Willis, John . ..&lt; 



449 

INDEX 1845 



Von Meyer, Leopold, 1112 
Vantyne, W. H., 686 1694 1704 
♦Vehicles, 2067 

Vera Cruz, Mexico, 53 70 73 74 
Vermillion river, 1595 
Vermont, 469 481 766 1255 1425 
Vermont CHRONICLE (newspaper), 1878 
"Verse" (poem), 1272 1281 1308 1315 1317 
Vicksburg SENTINEL (newspaper), 1947 
Victoria, Queen of England, 219 
VICTORY (ship), 1803 
Vinall, J. J., 612 758 1208 
Vincent. See Gardner and Vincent 
Vineyard lane, 198 199 214 317 
Virginia, 52 401-403 407 1125 1247 1897 

Wade. See Payne, Will son, and Wade 

Wade, B. F., 1630 

Wade, Edward, 402 592 593 1343 1364 1433 1981 

Wade, J., 921 

Wadsworth, Ohio, 1725 1726 1729 1738 

Walden. J. H., 79 765 996 1127 

Walker, G. W., 1127 

Walker, J. W., 277 

Walker, Robert J., 46 1502 1941 1949 

Walker, William R., 965 

Wall Edward, 1331 

Wall street, 149 

Walters, J. R., 262 

*War, 2068 

Ward, Horatio N., 1566 

Warner, J. P., 105 1406 1916 2124 

Warner (J. F.) and Company, 1915 

Warner, Richard, 1446 ^•• 

Warner, W. J., 834 2095 

Warner and Witherell, 834 

WARREN (ship), 673 

Warren CHRONICLE (newspaper), 1736 

Warren county, Ohio, 1999 

Warren, Daniel, 874 1382 1424 1648 

Warren, J. M., 921 

Warren, Moses, 765 

Warren, Ohio, 232 1463 1522 

Warren (W. ) and Company, 355 523 

Warrensville, Ohio, 684 765 1382 1537 1648 2023 

Warrensville road, 948 

Warwick, England, 1940 

Washbon, M. N., 884 

"Washington's Birth-Day" (poem), 1274 

Washington CONSTITUTIONALIST (newspaper), 1541 

Washington county, Ohio, 402 



450 

INDEX 1845 

Washington, D. C, 38 45 151 184 555 670 801 1158 1443 1444 1476 1483 

1487 1493 1503 1516 1794 1887 1944 1945 1963 2064 
Washington Engine Company No. 1, 762 
Washington JOURNAL (newspaper), 36 
Washington MADISONIAN (newspaper), 1145 1489 
Washington NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER (newspaper), 50 583 1242 
Washington UNION (newspaper), 51 65 151 1166 1442 1445 1448 1503 1506 

1511 1518 1941 
WATERLOO (ship), 1825 
Waterloo. Belgium, 2068 
Water st., 243 308 561 523 525 535 614 616 628 687-689 762 916 922 1022 

1113 1215 1216 1521 1658 1661 1664 1923 1927 
*Water Supply, 2069-2070 

*Waterways. See Canals &amp; Canal Boats; Rivers &amp; Harbors 
Watkins, George, 1336 • . . 

Watson, John, 884 1343 1705 1719 
Watson, Samuel, 1121 
Waterman, William, 440 

Watrous. See Brayton, Egerton, and Watrous 
Waiters, Benjamin C, 1336 1339 1359 1363 
Wattles, Augustus, 1128 

WAYNE (ship), 1848 . 

WAYNE COUNTY DEMOCRAT (newspaper), 1362 
Wayne county, N. Y., 686 

Wayne county, Ohio, 1392 1562 1572 1617 1737 
Wayne, Medina, and Cuyahoga Turnpike Co., 1718 1719 1741 
*Weather, 2071-2088 
Weatherly, J. L., 847 1142 2095 
Weatherly (J. L.) and Company, 2108 
Weaver, Henry G., 1393 
Webb, James Watson, 1136 
Webb, S. H., 804 
Webber, R., 277 
Webster and Company, 342 524 
Webster, Daniel, 1252 
Webster, Fletcher, 95 

WEBSTER'S AMERICAN DICTIONARY (book), 173 
Weddell, H. P., 81 140 1648 
Weddell House, 382 807 813 872 873 
Weddell, Peter M., 140 144 204 531 806 1613 1754 
Weddell (P. M.) and Son, 538 549 946 
"Weeping Mother" (song), 1100 
Weiss, Frederick William, 517 715 2103 
Welch, B. S-, 412 

Welch and Company, 28 :. .. . .^ 

Weld, George C, 646 

♦Welfare, 2089-2096 . , 

ffelland canal, 1810 1824 1839 
Weller, J. B., 1180 

*Wells, 2097

Wells and Company, 587 



451 

INDEX 1845 

Wells, John, 320 

Wellsville PATRIOT (newspaper), 1573 

Wellsville, Ohio, 1557 1559 1582 1586 1596 1621 1635 1640 

Welton, Salina, 498 

Wesleyan Methodist church. See Methodist Episcopal church 

West, Benjamin, 86 89 91 

West, John F., 2125 

West, Z. H., 1116 

WESTERN LITERARY JOURNAL AND MONTHLY REVIEW (periodical), 1224 

Western Reserve, 23 291 471 743 744 745 746 754 896 1135 1172 1211 1228 
1231 1248 1370 1393 1401 1403 1406 1426 1471 1636 1659 1705 1767 1786 
1951 

Western Reserve college, 127 363-367 987 989 990 995-997 1090 1168 

WESTERN RESERVE MAGAZINE OF AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE (periodical), 1227 1230 1232 1234 1236 1238 1243 

Western Reserve Teachers' seminary, 559 560 1786 

*Westward Movement. See Annexation &amp; Expansion 

Wetmore, Edward P., 1328 

Wetmore, William, 15 16 23 655 

*Wheat. See Grain 

Wheeler, Bertram, 451 

Wheeler, J. A., 198 313 1334 134! 2095 

Wheeler, John, 984 

Wheeler, (John A.) and Company, 1S9 250 252 254 255 

Wheeling. Va., 717 1589 1600 1640 1964 

Whig party, 42 127 155 158 183 928 1144 1147-1151 1153 1154 1163 1175 
1176 1185 1228 1241 1245 1330 1332 1334 1335 1339 1343-1354 1357 
1362 1365-1368 1370 1372 1373 1375-1379 1384 1385 1389 1390 1393- 
1395 1397-1399 1401 1402 1404 1407 1410 1413-1415 1417-1419 1422 
1425-1428 1431 1441 1449 1455 1461 1464 1481 1482 1490 1508 1511 
1514 1518 163H 1794 1795 1836 1894 1898 

Whipple, A., 211 

Whipple, D. R., 1731 

Whipple, H. E., 1784 

White, Andrew, 1352 

White, Bushnell, 109 1349 1364 1386 1389 

White, Harvey, 1357 2021 

White, J. A., 975 1015 

Whitehead, Frederick, 613 

White, Lambert, 1339 1953 1954 

White's (Mrs.) boarding house, 1020 

White, W., 1058 

Whitfield, J. M., 884 

Whitman, Henry S., 1366 1389 

Whitmore (L.) and Company, 868 

Whittemore, E., 312 

Whittlesey, Elisha, 149 1041 1409 1410 1467 1516 1571 1630 1631 1736 

Whittlesey, F., 456 

Whitaker (C.) and Company, 727 

Whittaker, Stephen, 137 1343 -■ ■ 

Whittaker's tin shop, 694 '•'-. . 

♦Wholesale Trade, 2098-2137 



452 

INDEX 1845 

Wicken, John, 1652 

Wigman, John B., 216 276 1902 

WILCOX (ship), 1869 

Wilcox, H. F., 1786 

Wilcox, John, 436 

Wiley and Putnam, 1245 

WILFULNESS OF WOMAN (book), 165 

Wilison, David, 1832 

Wilkes. See Camp and Wilkes co. 

Willey and Cary, 1754 

Willey, George, 7 758 762 764 1754 

Williams. See Cow;ng, Richmond, Williams, and Company 

Williams and Corning, 525 , ; ; 

Williams, C, 1841 

Williams, E. G., 313 1330 1334 1665 

Williams, H., 1583 

Williams, Henry W., 1767 ' •■ . 

Williams, Rose A., 1001 

Williams, William, 1474 

Williamsfield, Ohio, 277 

Williamson and Brown, 926 927 

Williamson county, Tenn., 1418 

Williamson, S., 926 1352 1657 

Williamson, Samuel, 122 1565 

Williard, W. H., 824 

Willis, John, 431 

Willis, Nathaniel, 1165 1173 1175 
Wills and Smith, 163 

Wills, David, 164 - • . . 

Wills, John, 233 1918 
Wilison. See Payne, Wilison, and Wade 
Wilison, H. v., 803 1450 
Wilison, Mrs. H. V., 782 

Willoughby Medical college, 440 991 1003 1006 
Willoughby, Ohio, 472 974 991 1003 1006 1529 
Wilson and Drews, 1176 
Wilson county, Tenn., 1418 
Wilson, I. P., 365 
Wilson, Isaac, 102 
Wilson, James, 1407 
Wilson, John, 1719 
Wilson, Joseph Gaston, 367 
Wilson, William Duane, 1186 
Winch and Hugunin, 821 
Winch, J., 821 
Windsor, Canada, 695 
Windsor, Ohio, 1638 
WING AND WING (ship), 1804 
Winslow, C, 1450 

Winslow, N. C, 844 846 850 ;. -. 

Winslow, R., 211 



453 

INDEX 1845 

Winslow (R.) and Company, 846 850 1857 1862 2109 2131 

Winslow, R. G., 649 1132 1152 

Winslow, Richard, 1956 

"Winter" (poem), 1319 

"Winter's Revisits" (poem), 1285 

Wisconsin, 1939 

WISCONSIN (ship), 431 

Wisdom, W., 2066 

Wise, F. W., 681 

WISKONSAN (ship), 232 

Witherell. See Warner and Witherell 

Witherell. George, 199 313 834 1334 

Wolf Creek, Ohio, 1609 

♦Women, 2139-2141 

*Women's Wear. See Clothing Trade 

Wood. See Babcock and Wood 

Wood, David L., 313 488 1334 2058 

Wood, Reuben, 786 788 

Wood St., 628 762 1656 

Wood, William, 1875 

Woodford. See Pratt, Woodford and Company 

WOOD'S DEFENCE OF HOMEOPATHY (book), 517 

Woodward, George, 1812 

Woodworth, L., 782 

*Wool, 2142 2143 

Woolsey, John M., 596 1457 1486 1559 1613 1631 1718 1828 

Woolson and Pomeroy, 674 1907 

Woolson, C. J., 674 1907 1910 

Woolson (C. J.) and Company, 1907 

Woolson, Klemm, and Company, 1911 

WoosLer DEMOCRAT (newspaper), 737 1404 1577 1638 

Wooster, Ohio, 145 146 148 150 151 589 701 1577 1609 1617 1634 1637- 

1639 1641 1644 1682 1717 1719-1723 1725 1726 1728-1730 1732 1733 
Wooster plank road, 1579 
Worcester county, Mass. , 37 
Worcester, Noah, 1000 
Worthington, G., 561 
Worthington, R. H., 330 
Worthington, Thomas, 1034 
Wright. See Lawrence and Wright 
Wright and Hamlin, 486 
Wright, E., 1451 1481 
Wright, M. L., 484 
Wyman, T., 222 

Xenia, Ohio, 587 1466 1570 1588 1594 

Yancey, William L., 545 553 
Yankee Samson, 307 
York river, 666 
Young, Granville, 444 



454 

INDEX 1845 

Younglove, M. C, 81 165; 167 172 174 179 181 182 185 186 188 190 191 
283 587 773 901 955 956 1041 1163 1207 1226 1230 1232 1233 1235 1236 
1238 1552 1785 1787 1788 

Zanesville, Ohio, 373 .';.•"'■ ;- .&gt; 

Zanesville line, 1812 

#START_APPENDIX

HECKMAN 

BINDERY INC. 

^ FEB 91 


